<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-US">
	<head>
		<title>cousin-teresa</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<article id="cousin-teresa" epub:type="se:short-story">
			<h2>Cousin Teresa</h2>
<p>Basset Harrowcluff returned to the home of his fathers, after
an absence of four years, distinctly well pleased with
himself. He was only thirty-one, but he had put in some
useful service in an out-of-the-way, though not unimportant,
corner of the world. He had quieted a province, kept open a
trade route, enforced the tradition of respect which is worth the
ransom of many kings in out-of-the-way regions, and done the
whole business on rather less expenditure than would be requisite
for organising a charity in the home country. In Whitehall
and places where they think, they doubtless thought well of
him. It was not inconceivable, his father allowed himself
to imagine, that Basset’s name might figure in the next
list of Honours.</p>
<p>Basset was inclined to be rather contemptuous of his
half-brother, Lucas, whom he found feverishly engrossed in the
same medley of elaborate futilities that had claimed his whole
time and energies, such as they were, four years ago, and almost
as far back before that as he could remember. It was the
contempt of the man of action for the man of activities, and it
was probably reciprocated. Lucas was an over-well nourished
individual, some nine years Basset’s senior, with a
colouring that would have been accepted as a sign of intensive
culture in an asparagus, but probably meant in this case mere
abstention from exercise. His hair and forehead furnished a
recessional note in a personality that was in all other respects
obtrusive and assertive. There was certainly no Semitic
blood in Lucas’s parentage, but his appearance contrived to
convey at least a suggestion of Jewish extraction. Clovis
Sangrail, who knew most of his associates by sight, said it was
undoubtedly a case of protective mimicry.</p>
<p>Two days after Basset’s return, Lucas frisked in to
lunch in a state of twittering excitement that could not be
restrained even for the immediate consideration of soup, but had
to be verbally discharged in spluttering competition with
mouthfuls of vermicelli.</p>
<p>“I’ve got hold of an idea for something
immense,” he babbled, “something that is simply
It.”</p>
<p>Basset gave a short laugh that would have done equally well as
a snort, if one had wanted to make the exchange. His
half-brother was in the habit of discovering futilities that were
“simply It” at frequently recurring intervals.
The discovery generally meant that he flew up to town, preceded
by glowingly-worded telegrams, to see some one connected with the
stage or the publishing world, got together one or two momentous
luncheon parties, flitted in and out of “Gambrinus”
for one or two evenings, and returned home with an air of subdued
importance and the asparagus tint slightly intensified. The
great idea was generally forgotten a few weeks later in the
excitement of some new discovery.</p>
<p>“The inspiration came to me whilst I was
dressing,” announced Lucas; “it will be <i>the</i>
thing in the next music-hall <i>revue</i>. All London will
go mad over it. It’s just a couplet; of course there
will be other words, but they won’t matter.
Listen:</p>
<blockquote><p>Cousin Teresa takes out Cæsar,<br />
Fido, Jock, and the big borzoi.</p>
</blockquote>
<p>A lifting, catchy sort of refrain, you see, and big-drum
business on the two syllables of bor-zoi. It’s
immense. And I’ve thought out all the business of it;
the singer will sing the first verse alone, then during the
second verse Cousin Teresa will walk through, followed by four
wooden dogs on wheels; Cæsar will be an Irish terrier, Fido
a black poodle, Jock a fox-terrier, and the borzoi, of course,
will be a borzoi. During the third verse Cousin Teresa will
come on alone, and the dogs will be drawn across by themselves
from the opposite wing; then Cousin Teresa will catch on to the
singer and go off-stage in one direction, while the dogs’
procession goes off in the other, crossing en route, which is
always very effective. There’ll be a lot of applause
there, and for the fourth verse Cousin Teresa will come on in
sables and the dogs will all have coats on. Then I’ve
got a great idea for the fifth verse; each of the dogs will be
led on by a Nut, and Cousin Teresa will come on from the opposite
side, crossing en route, always effective, and then she turns
round and leads the whole lot of them off on a string, and all
the time every one singing like mad:</p>
<blockquote><p>Cousin Teresa takes out Cæsar<br />
Fido, Jock, and the big borzoi.</p>
</blockquote>
<p>Tum-Tum! Drum business on the two last syllables.
I’m so excited, I shan’t sleep a wink to-night.
I’m off to-morrow by the ten-fifteen. I’ve
wired to Hermanova to lunch with me.”</p>
<p>If any of the rest of the family felt any excitement over the
creation of Cousin Teresa, they were signally successful in
concealing the fact.</p>
<p>“Poor Lucas does take his silly little ideas
seriously,” said Colonel Harrowcluff afterwards in the
smoking-room.</p>
<p>“Yes,” said his younger son, in a slightly less
tolerant tone, “in a day or two he’ll come back and
tell us that his sensational masterpiece is above the heads of
the public, and in about three weeks’ time he’ll be
wild with enthusiasm over a scheme to dramatise the poems of
Herrick or something equally promising.”</p>
<p>And then an extraordinary thing befell. In defiance of
all precedent Lucas’s glowing anticipations were justified
and endorsed by the course of events. If Cousin Teresa was
above the heads of the public, the public heroically adapted
itself to her altitude. Introduced as an experiment at a
dull moment in a new <i>revue</i>, the success of the item was
unmistakable; the calls were so insistent and uproarious that
even Lucas’ ample devisings of additional
“business” scarcely sufficed to keep pace with the
demand. Packed houses on successive evenings confirmed the
verdict of the first night audience, stalls and boxes filled
significantly just before the turn came on, and emptied
significantly after the last <i>encore</i> had been given.
The manager tearfully acknowledged that Cousin Teresa was
It. Stage hands and supers and programme sellers
acknowledged it to one another without the least
reservation. The name of the <i>revue</i> dwindled to
secondary importance, and vast letters of electric blue blazoned
the words “Cousin Teresa” from the front of the great
palace of pleasure. And, of course, the magic of the famous
refrain laid its spell all over the Metropolis. Restaurant
proprietors were obliged to provide the members of their
orchestras with painted wooden dogs on wheels, in order that the
much-demanded and always conceded melody should be rendered with
the necessary spectacular effects, and the crash of bottles and
forks on the tables at the mention of the big borzoi usually
drowned the sincerest efforts of drum or cymbals. Nowhere
and at no time could one get away from the double thump that
brought up the rear of the refrain; revellers reeling home at
night banged it on doors and hoardings, milkmen clashed their
cans to its cadence, messenger boys hit smaller messenger boys
resounding double smacks on the same principle. And the
more thoughtful circles of the great city were not deaf to the
claims and significance of the popular melody. An
enterprising and emancipated preacher discoursed from his pulpit
on the inner meaning of “Cousin Teresa,” and Lucas
Harrowcluff was invited to lecture on the subject of his great
achievement to members of the Young Mens’ Endeavour League,
the Nine Arts Club, and other learned and willing-to-learn
bodies. In Society it seemed to be the one thing people
really cared to talk about; men and women of middle age and
average education might be seen together in corners earnestly
discussing, not the question whether Servia should have an outlet
on the Adriatic, or the possibilities of a British success in
international polo contests, but the more absorbing topic of the
problematic Aztec or Nilotic origin of the Teresa
<i>motiv</i>.</p>
<p>“Politics and patriotism are so boring and so out of
date,” said a revered lady who had some pretensions to
oracular utterance; “we are too cosmopolitan nowadays to be
really moved by them. That is why one welcomes an
intelligible production like ‘Cousin Teresa,’ that
has a genuine message for one. One can’t understand
the message all at once, of course, but one felt from the very
first that it was there. I’ve been to see it eighteen
times and I’m going again to-morrow and on Thursday.
One can’t see it often enough.”</p>
<p style="text-align: center">* * * * *</p>
<p>“It would be rather a popular move if we gave this
Harrowcluff person a knighthood or something of the sort,”
said the Minister reflectively.</p>
<p>“Which Harrowcluff?” asked his secretary.</p>
<p>“Which? There is only one, isn’t
there?” said the Minister; “the ‘Cousin
Teresa’ man, of course. I think every one would be
pleased if we knighted him. Yes, you can put him down on
the list of certainties—under the letter L.”</p>
<p>“The letter L,” said the secretary, who was new to
his job; “does that stand for Liberalism or
liberality?”</p>
<p>Most of the recipients of Ministerial favour were expected to
qualify in both of those subjects.</p>
<p>“Literature,” explained the Minister.</p>
<p>And thus, after a fashion, Colonel Harrowcluff’s
expectation of seeing his son’s name in the list of Honours
was gratified.</p>

		</article>
	</body>
</html>
