<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-US">
	<head>
		<title>cross-currents</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<article id="cross-currents" epub:type="se:short-story">
			<h2>CROSS CURRENTS</h2>
<p>Vanessa Pennington had a husband who was poor, with few
extenuating circumstances, and an admirer who, though comfortably
rich, was cumbered with a sense of honour. His wealth made
him welcome in Vanessa’s eyes, but his code of what was
right impelled him to go away and forget her, or at the most to
think of her in the intervals of doing a great many other
things. And although Alaric Clyde loved Vanessa, and
thought he should always go on loving her, he gradually and
unconsciously allowed himself to be wooed and won by a more
alluring mistress; he fancied that his continued shunning of the
haunts of men was a self-imposed exile, but his heart was caught
in the spell of the Wilderness, and the Wilderness was kind and
beautiful to him. When one is young and strong and
unfettered the wild earth can be very kind and very
beautiful. Witness the legion of men who were once young
and unfettered and now eat out their souls in dustbins, because,
having erstwhile known and loved the Wilderness, they broke from
her thrall and turned aside into beaten paths.</p>
<p>In the high waste places of the world Clyde roamed and hunted
and dreamed, death-dealing and gracious as some god of Hellas,
moving with his horses and servants and four-footed camp
followers from one dwelling ground to another, a welcome guest
among wild primitive village folk and nomads, a friend and slayer
of the fleet, shy beasts around him. By the shores of misty
upland lakes he shot the wild fowl that had winged their way to
him across half the old world; beyond Bokhara he watched the wild
Aryan horsemen at their gambols; watched, too, in some dim-lit
tea-house one of those beautiful uncouth dances that one can
never wholly forget; or, making a wide cast down to the valley of
the Tigris, swam and rolled in its snow-cooled racing
waters. Vanessa, meanwhile, in a Bayswater back street, was
making out the weekly laundry list, attending bargain sales, and,
in her more adventurous moments, trying new ways of cooking
whiting. Occasionally she went to bridge
parties, where, if the play was not illuminating, at least one
learned a great deal about the private life of some of the Royal
and Imperial Houses. Vanessa, in a way, was glad that Clyde
had done the proper thing. She had a strong natural bias
towards respectability, though she would have preferred to have
been respectable in smarter surroundings, where her example would
have done more good. To be beyond reproach was one thing,
but it would have been nicer to have been nearer to the Park.</p>
<p>And then of a sudden her regard for respectability and
Clyde’s sense of what was right were thrown on the
scrap-heap of unnecessary things. They had been useful and
highly important in their time, but the death of Vanessa’s
husband made them of no immediate moment.</p>
<p>The news of the altered condition of things followed Clyde
with leisurely persistence from one place of call to another, and
at last ran him to a standstill somewhere in the Orenburg
Steppe. He would have found it exceedingly difficult to
analyse his feelings on receipt of the tidings. The Fates
had unexpectedly (and perhaps just a little officiously)
removed an obstacle from his path. He supposed he was
overjoyed, but he missed the feeling of elation which he had
experienced some four months ago when he had bagged a
snow-leopard with a lucky shot after a day’s fruitless
stalking. Of course he would go back and ask Vanessa to
marry him, but he was determined on enforcing a condition; on no
account would he desert his newer love. Vanessa would have
to agree to come out into the Wilderness with him.</p>
<p>The lady hailed the return of her lover with even more relief
than had been occasioned by his departure. The death of
John Pennington had left his widow in circumstances which were
more straitened than ever, and the Park had receded even from her
notepaper, where it had long been retained as a courtesy title on
the principle that addresses are given to us to conceal our
whereabouts. Certainly she was more independent now than
heretofore, but independence, which means so much to many women,
was of little account to Vanessa, who came under the heading of
the mere female. She made little ado about accepting
Clyde’s condition, and announced herself ready to follow him to the end of the world; as the world was
round she nourished a complacent idea that in the ordinary course
of things one would find oneself in the neighbourhood of Hyde
Park Corner sooner or later no matter how far afield one
wandered.</p>
<p>East of Budapest her complacency began to filter away, and
when she saw her husband treating the Black Sea with a
familiarity which she had never been able to assume towards the
English Channel, misgivings began to crowd in upon her.
Adventures which would have presented an amusing and enticing
aspect to a better-bred woman aroused in Vanessa only the twin
sensations of fright and discomfort. Flies bit her, and she
was persuaded that it was only sheer boredom that prevented
camels from doing the same. Clyde did his best, and a very
good best it was, to infuse something of the banquet into their
prolonged desert picnics, but even snow-cooled Heidsieck lost its
flavour when you were convinced that the dusky cupbearer who
served it with such reverent elegance was only waiting a
convenient opportunity to cut your throat. It was useless
for Clyde to give Yussuf a character for devotion such as is
rarely found in any Western servant. Vanessa was
well enough educated to know that all dusky-skinned people take
human life as unconcernedly as Bayswater folk take singing
lessons.</p>
<p>And with a growing irritation and querulousness on her part
came a further disenchantment, born of the inability of husband
and wife to find a common ground of interest. The habits
and migrations of the sand grouse, the folklore and customs of
Tartars and Turkomans, the points of a Cossack pony—these
were matter which evoked only a bored indifference in
Vanessa. On the other hand, Clyde was not thrilled on being
informed that the Queen of Spain detested mauve, or that a
certain Royal duchess, for whose tastes he was never likely to be
called on to cater, nursed a violent but perfectly respectable
passion for beef olives.</p>
<p>Vanessa began to arrive at the conclusion that a husband who
added a roving disposition to a settled income was a mixed
blessing. It was one thing to go to the end of the world;
it was quite another thing to make oneself at home there.
Even respectability seemed to lose some of its virtue when one
practised it in a tent.</p>
<p>Bored and disillusioned with the drift of her new life,
Vanessa was undisguisedly glad when distraction offered itself in
the person of Mr. Dobrinton, a chance acquaintance whom they had
first run against in the primitive hostelry of a benighted
Caucasian town. Dobrinton was elaborately British, in
deference perhaps to the memory of his mother, who was said to
have derived part of her origin from an English governess who had
come to Lemberg a long way back in the last century. If you
had called him Dobrinski when off his guard he would probably
have responded readily enough; holding, no doubt, that the end
crowns all, he had taken a slight liberty with the family
patronymic. To look at, Mr. Dobrinton was not a very
attractive specimen of masculine humanity, but in Vanessa’s
eyes he was a link with that civilisation which Clyde seemed so
ready to ignore and forgo. He could sing
“Yip-I-Addy” and spoke of several duchesses as if he
knew them—in his more inspired moments almost as if they
knew him. He even pointed out blemishes in the cuisine or
cellar departments of some of the more august London restaurants,
a species of Higher Criticism which was listened to by
Vanessa in awe-stricken admiration. And, above all, he
sympathised, at first discreetly, afterwards with more latitude,
with her fretful discontent at Clyde’s nomadic
instincts. Business connected with oil-wells had brought
Dobrinton to the neighbourhood of Baku; the pleasure of appealing
to an appreciative female audience induced him to deflect his
return journey so as to coincide a good deal with his new
aquaintances’ line of march. And while Clyde
trafficked with Persian horse-dealers or hunted the wild grey
pigs in their lairs and added to his notes on Central Asian
game-fowl, Dobrinton and the lady discussed the ethics of desert
respectability from points of view that showed a daily tendency
to converge. And one evening Clyde dined alone, reading
between the courses a long letter from Vanessa, justifying her
action in flitting to more civilised lands with a more congenial
companion.</p>
<p>It was distinctly evil luck for Vanessa, who really was
thoroughly respectable at heart, that she and her lover should
run into the hands of Kurdish brigands on the first day of their
flight. To be mewed up in a squalid Kurdish village in
close companionship with a man who was only your husband by adoption, and to have the attention of all Europe
drawn to your plight, was about the least respectable thing that
could happen. And there were international complications,
which made things worse. “English lady and her
husband, of foreign nationality, held by Kurdish brigands who
demand ransom” had been the report of the nearest
Consul. Although Dobrinton was British at heart, the other
portions of him belonged to the Habsburgs, and though the
Habsburgs took no great pride or pleasure in this particular unit
of their wide and varied possessions, and would gladly have
exchanged him for some interesting bird or mammal for the
Schoenbrunn Park, the code of international dignity demanded that
they should display a decent solicitude for his
restoration. And while the Foreign Offices of the two
countries were taking the usual steps to secure the release of
their respective subjects a further horrible complication
ensued. Clyde, following on the track of the fugitives, not
with any special desire to overtake them, but with a dim feeling
that it was expected of him, fell into the hands of the same
community of brigands. Diplomacy, while anxious to do its
best for a lady in misfortune, showed signs of becoming restive
at this expansion of its task; as a frivolous young
gentleman in Downing Street remarked, “Any husband of Mrs.
Dobrinton’s we shall be glad to extricate, but let us know
how many there are of them.” For a woman who valued
respectability Vanessa really had no luck.</p>
<p>Meanwhile the situation of the captives was not free from
embarrassment. When Clyde explained to the Kurdish headmen
the nature of his relationship with the runaway couple they were
gravely sympathetic, but vetoed any idea of summary vengeance,
since the Habsburgs would be sure to insist on the delivery of
Dobrinton alive, and in a reasonably undamaged condition.
They did not object to Clyde administering a beating to his rival
for half an hour every Monday and Thursday, but Dobrinton turned
such a sickly green when he heard of this arrangement that the
chief was obliged to withdraw the concession.</p>
<p>And so, in the cramped quarters of a mountain hut, the
ill-assorted trio watched the insufferable hours crawl slowly
by. Dobrinton was too frightened to be conversational,
Vanessa was too mortified to open her lips, and Clyde was moodily
silent. The little Limberg
<i>négociant</i> plucked up heart once to give a quavering
rendering of “Yip-I-Addy,” but when he reached the
statement “home was never like this” Vanessa
tearfully begged him to stop. And silence fastened itself
with growing insistence on the three captives who were so
tragically herded together; thrice a day they drew near to one
another to swallow the meal that had been prepared for them, like
desert beasts meeting in mute suspended hostility at the drinking
pool, and then drew back to resume the vigil of waiting.</p>
<p>Clyde was less carefully watched than the others.
“Jealousy will keep him to the woman’s side,”
thought his Kurdish captors. They did not know that his
wilder, truer love was calling to him with a hundred voices from
beyond the village bounds. And one evening, finding that he
was not getting the attention to which he was entitled, Clyde
slipped away down the mountain side and resumed his study of
Central Asian game-fowl. The remaining captives were
guarded henceforth with greater rigour, but Dobrinton at any rate
scarcely regretted Clyde’s departure.</p>
<p>The long arm, or perhaps one might better say the
long purse, of diplomacy at last effected the release of the
prisoners, but the Habsburgs were never to enjoy the guerdon of
their outlay. On the quay of the little Black Sea port,
where the rescued pair came once more into contact with
civilisation, Dobrinton was bitten by a dog which was assumed to
be mad, though it may only have been indiscriminating. The
victim did not wait for symptoms of rabies to declare themselves,
but died forthwith of fright, and Vanessa made the homeward
journey alone, conscious somehow of a sense of slightly restored
respectability. Clyde, in the intervals of correcting the
proofs of his book on the game-fowl of Central Asia, found time
to press a divorce suit through the Courts, and as soon as
possible hied him away to the congenial solitudes of the Gobi
Desert to collect material for a work on the fauna of that
region. Vanessa, by virtue perhaps of her earlier intimacy
with the cooking rites of the whiting, obtained a place on the
kitchen staff of a West End club. It was not brilliant, but
at least it was within two minutes of the Park.</p>

		</article>
	</body>
</html>
