<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-US">
	<head>
		<title>reginalds-christmas-revel</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<article id="reginalds-christmas-revel" epub:type="se:short-story">
			<h2>Reginald’s Christmas Revel</h2>
<p>They say (said Reginald) that there’s nothing sadder
than victory except defeat. If you’ve ever stayed
with dull people during what is alleged to be the festive season,
you can probably revise that saying. I shall never forget
putting in a Christmas at the Babwolds’. Mrs. Babwold
is some relation of my father’s—a sort of
to-be-left-till-called-for cousin—and that was considered
sufficient reason for my having to accept her invitation at about
the sixth time of asking; though why the sins of the father
should be visited by the children—you won’t find any
notepaper in that drawer; that’s where I keep old menus and
first-night programmes.</p>
<p>Mrs. Babwold wears a rather solemn personality, and has never
been known to smile, even when saying disagreeable things to her
friends or making out the Stores list. She takes her
pleasures sadly. A state elephant at a Durbar gives one a
very similar impression. Her husband gardens in all
weathers. When a man goes out in the pouring rain to brush
caterpillars off rose-trees, I generally imagine his life indoors
leaves something to be desired; anyway, it must be very
unsettling for the caterpillars.</p>
<p>Of course there were other people there. There was a
Major Somebody who had shot things in Lapland, or somewhere of
that sort; I forget what they were, but it wasn’t for want
of reminding. We had them cold with every meal almost, and
he was continually giving us details of what they measured from
tip to tip, as though he thought we were going to make them warm
under-things for the winter. I used to listen to him with a
rapt attention that I thought rather suited me, and then one day
I quite modestly gave the dimensions of an okapi I had shot in
the Lincolnshire fens. The Major turned a beautiful Tyrian
scarlet (I remember thinking at the time that I should like my
bathroom hung in that colour), and I think that at that moment he
almost found it in his heart to dislike me. Mrs. Babwold
put on a first-aid-to-the-injured expression, and asked him why
he didn’t publish a book of his sporting reminiscences; it
would be <i>so</i> interesting. She didn’t remember
till afterwards that he had given her two fat volumes on the
subject, with his portrait and autograph as a frontispiece and an
appendix on the habits of the Arctic mussel.</p>
<p>It was in the evening that we cast aside the cares and
distractions of the day and really lived. Cards were
thought to be too frivolous and empty a way of passing the time,
so most of them played what they called a book game. You
went out into the hall—to get an inspiration, I
suppose—then you came in again with a muffler tied round
your neck and looked silly, and the others were supposed to guess
that you were “Wee MacGreegor.” I held out
against the inanity as long as I decently could, but at last, in
a lapse of good-nature, I consented to masquerade as a book, only
I warned them that it would take some time to carry out.
They waited for the best part of forty minutes, while I went and
played wineglass skittles with the page-boy in the pantry; you
play it with a champagne cork, you know, and the one who knocks
down the most glasses without breaking them wins. I won,
with four unbroken out of seven; I think William suffered from
over-anxiousness. They were rather mad in the drawing-room
at my not having come back, and they weren’t a bit pacified
when I told them afterwards that I was “At the end of the
passage.”</p>
<p>“I never did like Kipling,” was Mrs.
Babwold’s comment, when the situation dawned upon
her. “I couldn’t see anything clever in
<i>Earthworms out of Tuscany</i>—or is that by
Darwin?”</p>
<p>Of course these games are very educational, but, personally, I
prefer bridge.</p>
<p>On Christmas evening we were supposed to be specially festive
in the Old English fashion. The hall was horribly draughty,
but it seemed to be the proper place to revel in, and it was
decorated with Japanese fans and Chinese lanterns, which gave it
a very Old English effect. A young lady with a confidential
voice favoured us with a long recitation about a little girl who
died or did something equally hackneyed, and then the Major gave
us a graphic account of a struggle he had with a wounded
bear. I privately wished that the bears would win sometimes
on these occasions; at least they wouldn’t go vapouring
about it afterwards. Before we had time to recover our
spirits, we were indulged with some thought-reading by a young
man whom one knew instinctively had a good mother and an
indifferent tailor—the sort of young man who talks
unflaggingly through the thickest soup, and smooths his hair
dubiously as though he thought it might hit back. The
thought-reading was rather a success; he announced that the
hostess was thinking about poetry, and she admitted that her mind
was dwelling on one of Austin’s odes. Which was near
enough. I fancy she had been really wondering whether a
scrag-end of mutton and some cold plum-pudding would do for the
kitchen dinner next day. As a crowning dissipation, they
all sat down to play progressive halma, with milk-chocolate for
prizes. I’ve been carefully brought up, and I
don’t like to play games of skill for milk-chocolate, so I
invented a headache and retired from the scene. I had been
preceded a few minutes earlier by Miss Langshan-Smith, a rather
formidable lady, who always got up at some uncomfortable hour in
the morning, and gave you the impression that she had been in
communication with most of the European Governments before
breakfast. There was a paper pinned on her door with a
signed request that she might be called particularly early on the
morrow. Such an opportunity does not come twice in a
lifetime. I covered up everything except the signature with
another notice, to the effect that before these words should meet
the eye she would have ended a misspent life, was sorry for the
trouble she was giving, and would like a military funeral.
A few minutes later I violently exploded an air-filled paper bag
on the landing, and gave a stage moan that could have been heard
in the cellars. Then I pursued my original intention and
went to bed. The noise those people made in forcing open
the good lady’s door was positively indecorous; she
resisted gallantly, but I believe they searched her for bullets
for about a quarter of an hour, as if she had been an historic
battlefield.</p>
<p>I hate travelling on Boxing Day, but one must occasionally do
things that one dislikes.</p>

		</article>
	</body>
</html>
