<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-GB">
	<head>
		<title>reginalds-peace-poem</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<article id="reginalds-peace-poem" epub:type="se:short-story">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Reginald’s Peace Poem</h2>
			<p>“I’m writing a poem on Peace,” said Reginald, emerging from a sweeping operation through a tin of mixed biscuits, in whose depths a macaroon or two might yet be lurking.</p>
			<p>“Something of the kind seems to have been attempted already,” said the Other.</p>
			<p>“Oh, I know; but I may never have the chance again. Besides, I’ve got a new fountain pen. I don’t pretend to have gone on any very original lines; in writing about Peace the thing is to say what everybody else is saying, only to say it better. It begins with the usual ornithological emotion⁠—</p>
			<blockquote epub:type="z3998:verse">
				<p>
					<span>‘When the widgeon westward winging</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Heard the folk Vereeniginging,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Heard the shouting and the singing’ ”⁠—</span>
				</p>
			</blockquote>
			<p>“Vereeniginging is good, but why widgeon?”</p>
			<p>“Why not? Anything that winged westward would naturally begin with a <i epub:type="z3998:phoneme">w</i>.”</p>
			<p>“Need it wing westward?”</p>
			<p>“The bird must go somewhere. You wouldn’t have it hang around and look foolish. Then I’ve brought in something about the heedless hartebeest galloping over the deserted veldt.”</p>
			<p>“Of course you know it’s practically extinct in those regions?”</p>
			<p>“I can’t help <em>that</em>, it gallops so nicely. I make it have all sorts of unexpected yearnings⁠—</p>
			<blockquote epub:type="z3998:verse">
				<p>
					<span>‘Mother, may I go and maffick,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Tear around and hinder traffic?’</span>
				</p>
			</blockquote>
			<p class="continued">Of course you’ll say there would be no traffic worth bothering about on the bare and sun-scorched veldt, but there’s no other word that rhymes with maffick.”</p>
			<p>“Seraphic?”</p>
			<p>Reginald considered. “It might do, but I’ve got a lot about angels later on. You must have angels in a Peace poem; I know dreadfully little about their habits.”</p>
			<p>“They can do unexpected things, like the hartebeest.”</p>
			<p>“Of course. Then I turn on London, the City of Dreadful Nocturnes, resonant with hymns of joy and thanksgiving⁠—</p>
			<blockquote epub:type="z3998:verse">
				<p>
					<span>‘And the sleeper, eye unlidding,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Heard a voice forever bidding</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Much farewell to Dolly Gray;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Turning weary on his truckle-</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Bed he heard the honeysuckle</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Lauded in apiarian lay.’</span>
				</p>
			</blockquote>
			<p class="continued">Longfellow at his best wrote nothing like that.”</p>
			<p>“I agree with you.”</p>
			<p>“I wish you wouldn’t. I’ve a sweet temper, but I can’t stand being agreed with. And I’m so worried about the aasvogel.”</p>
			<p>Reginald stared dismally at the biscuit-tin, which now presented an unattractive array of rejected cracknels.</p>
			<p>“I believe,” he murmured, “if I could find a woman with an unsatisfied craving for cracknels, I should marry her.”</p>
			<p>“What is the tragedy of the aasvogel?” asked the Other sympathetically.</p>
			<p>“Oh, simply that there’s no rhyme for it. I thought about it all the time I was dressing⁠—it’s dreadfully bad for one to think whilst one’s dressing⁠—and all lunchtime, and I’m still hung up over it. I feel like those unfortunate automobilists who achieve an unenviable motoriety by coming to a hopeless stop with their cars in the most crowded thoroughfares. I’m afraid I shall have to drop the aasvogel, and it did give such lovely local colour to the thing.”</p>
			<p>“Still you’ve got the heedless hartebeest.”</p>
			<p>“And quite a decorative bit of moral admonition⁠—when you’ve worried the meaning out⁠—</p>
			<blockquote epub:type="z3998:verse">
				<p>
					<span>‘Cease, War, thy bubbling madness that the wine shares,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And bid thy legions turn their swords to mine shares.’</span>
				</p>
			</blockquote>
			<p class="continued">Mine shares seems to fit the case better than ploughshares. There’s lots more about the blessings of Peace, shall I go on reading it?”</p>
			<p>“If I must make a choice, I think I would rather they went on with the war.”</p>
		</article>
	</body>
</html>
