<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-US">
	<head>
		<title>the-phantom-luncheon</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<article id="the-phantom-luncheon" epub:type="se:short-story">
			<h2>The Phantom Luncheon</h2>
<p>“The Smithly-Dubbs are in Town,” said Sir
James. “I wish you would show them some
attention. Ask them to lunch with you at the Ritz or
somewhere.”</p>
<p>“From the little I’ve seen of the Smithly-Dubbs I
don’t thing I want to cultivate their acquaintance,”
said Lady Drakmanton.</p>
<p>“They always work for us at election times,” said
her husband; “I don’t suppose they influence very
many votes, but they have an uncle who is on one of my ward
committees, and another uncle speaks sometimes at some of our
less important meetings. Those sort of people expect some
return in the shape of hospitality.”</p>
<p>“Expect it!” exclaimed Lady Drakmanton; “the
Misses Smithly-Dubb do more than that; they almost demand
it. They belong to my club, and hang about the lobby just
about lunch-time, all three of them, with their tongues hanging
out of their mouths and the six-course look in their eyes.
If I were to breathe the word ‘lunch’ they would
hustle me into a taxi and scream ‘Ritz’ or
‘Dieudonne’s’ to the driver before I knew what
was happening.”</p>
<p>“All the same, I think you ought to ask them to a meal
of some sort,” persisted Sir James.</p>
<p>“I consider that showing hospitality to the
Smithly-Dubbs is carrying Free Food principles to a regrettable
extreme,” said Lady Drakmanton; “I’ve
entertained the Joneses and the Browns and the Snapheimers and
the Lubrikoffs, and heaps of others whose names I forget, but I
don’t see why I should inflict the society of the Misses
Smithly-Dubb on myself for a solid hour. Imagine it, sixty
minutes, more or less, of unrelenting gobble and gabble.
Why can’t <i>you</i> take them on, Milly?” she asked,
turning hopefully to her sister.</p>
<p>“I don’t know them,” said Milly hastily.</p>
<p>“All the better; you can pass yourself off as me.
People say that we are so alike that they can hardly tell us
apart, and I’ve only spoken to these tiresome young women
about twice in my life, at committee-rooms, and bowed to them in
the club. Any of the club page-boys will point them out to
you; they’re always to be found lolling about the hall just
before lunch-time.”</p>
<p>“My dear Betty, don’t be absurd,” protested
Milly; “I’ve got some people lunching with me at the
Carlton to-morrow, and I’m leaving Town the day
afterwards.”</p>
<p>“What time is your lunch to-morrow?” asked Lady
Drakmanton reflectively.</p>
<p>“Two o’clock,” said Milly.</p>
<p>“Good,” said her sister; “the Smithly-Dubbs
shall lunch with me to-morrow. It shall be rather an
amusing lunch-party. At least, I shall be
amused.”</p>
<p>The last two remarks she made to herself. Other people
did not always appreciate her ideas of humour. Sir James
never did.</p>
<p>The next day Lady Drakmanton made some marked variations in
her usual toilet effects. She dressed her hair in an
unaccustomed manner, and put on a hat that added to the
transformation of her appearance. When she had made one or
two minor alterations she was sufficiently unlike her usual smart
self to produce some hesitation in the greeting which the Misses
Smithly-Dubb bestowed on her in the club-lobby. She
responded, however, with a readiness which set their doubts at
rest.</p>
<p>“What is the Carlton like for lunching in?” she
asked breezily.</p>
<p>The restaurant received an enthusiastic recommendation from
the three sisters.</p>
<p>“Let’s go and lunch there, shall we?” she
suggested, and in a few minutes’ time the Smithly-Dubb mind
was contemplating at close quarters a happy vista of baked meats
and approved vintage.</p>
<p>“Are you going to start with caviare? I am,”
confided Lady Drakmanton, and the Smithly-Dubbs started with
caviare. The subsequent dishes were chosen in the same
ambitious spirit, and by the time they had arrived at the wild
duck course it was beginning to be a rather expensive lunch.</p>
<p>The conversation hardly kept pace with the brilliancy of the
menu. Repeated references on the part of the guests to the
local political conditions and prospects in Sir James’s
constituency were met with vague “ahs” and
“indeeds” from Lady Drakmanton, who might have been
expected to be specially interested.</p>
<p>“I think when the Insurance Act is a little better
understood it will lose some of its present unpopularity,”
hazarded Cecilia Smithly-Dubb.</p>
<p>“Will it? I dare say. I’m afraid
politics don’t interest me very much,” said Lady
Drakmanton.</p>
<p>The three Miss Smithly-Dubbs put down their cups of Turkish
coffee and stared. Then they broke into protesting
giggles.</p>
<p>“Of course, you’re joking,” they said.</p>
<p>“Not me,” was the disconcerting answer; “I
can’t make head or tail of these bothering old
politics. Never could, and never want to. I’ve
quite enough to do to manage my own affairs, and that’s a
fact.”</p>
<p>“But,” exclaimed Amanda Smithly-Dubb, with a
squeal of bewilderment breaking into her voice, “I was told
you spoke so informingly about the Insurance Act at one of our
social evenings.”</p>
<p>It was Lady Drakmanton who stared now. “Do you
know,” she said, with a scared look around her,
“rather a dreadful thing is happening. I’m
suffering from a complete loss of memory. I can’t
even think who I am. I remember meeting you somewhere, and
I remember you asking me to come and lunch with you here, and
that I accepted your kind invitation. Beyond that my mind
is a positive blank.”</p>
<p>The scared look was transferred with intensified poignancy to
the faces of her companions.</p>
<p>“<i>You</i> asked <i>us</i> to lunch,” they
exclaimed hurriedly. That seemed a more immediately
important point to clear up than the question of identity.</p>
<p>“Oh, no,” said the vanishing hostess,
“<i>that</i> I do remember about. You insisted on my
coming here because the feeding was so good, and I must say it
comes up to all you said about it. A very nice lunch
it’s been. What I’m worrying about is who on
earth am I? I haven’t the faintest notion?”</p>
<p>“You are Lady Drakmanton,” exclaimed the three
sisters in chorus.</p>
<p>“Now, don’t make fun of me,” she replied,
crossly, “I happen to know her quite well by sight, and she
isn’t a bit like me. And it’s an odd thing you
should have mentioned her, for it so happens she’s just
come into the room. That lady in black, with the yellow
plume in her hat, there over by the door.”</p>
<p>The Smithly-Dubbs looked in the indicated direction, and the
uneasiness in their eyes deepened into horror. In outward
appearance the lady who had just entered the room certainly came
rather nearer to their recollection of their Member’s wife
than the individual who was sitting at table with them.</p>
<p>“Who <i>are</i> you, then, if that is Lady
Drakmanton?” they asked in panic-stricken bewilderment.</p>
<p>“That is just what I don’t know,” was the
answer; “and you don’t seem to know much better than
I do.”</p>
<p>“You came up to us in the club—”</p>
<p>“In what club?”</p>
<p>“The New Didactic, in Calais Street.”</p>
<p>“The New Didactic!” exclaimed Lady Drakmanton with
an air of returning illumination; “thank you so much.
Of course, I remember now who I am. I’m Ellen Niggle,
of the Ladies’ Brasspolishing Guild. The Club employs
me to come now and then and see to the polishing of the brass
fittings. That’s how I came to know Lady Drakmanton
by sight; she’s very often in the Club. And you are
the ladies who so kindly asked me out to lunch. Funny how
it should all have slipped my memory, all of a sudden. The
unaccustomed good food and wine must have been too much for me;
for the moment I really couldn’t call to mind who I
was. Good gracious,” she broke off suddenly,
“it’s ten past two; I should be at a polishing job in
Whitehall. I must scuttle off like a giddy rabbit.
Thanking you ever so.”</p>
<p>She left the room with a scuttle sufficiently suggestive of
the animal she had mentioned, but the giddiness was all on the
side of her involuntary hostesses. The restaurant seemed to
be spinning round them; and the bill when it appeared did nothing
to restore their composure. They were as nearly in tears as
it is permissible to be during the luncheon hour in a really good
restaurant. Financially speaking, they were well able to
afford the luxury of an elaborate lunch, but their ideas on the
subject of entertaining differed very sharply, according to the
circumstances of whether they were dispensing or receiving
hospitality. To have fed themselves liberally at their own
expense was, perhaps, an extravagance to be deplored, but, at any
rate, they had had something for their money; to have drawn an
unknown and socially unremunerative Ellen Niggle into the net of
their hospitality was a catastrophe that they could not
contemplate with any degree of calmness.</p>
<p>The Smithly-Dubbs never quite recovered from their unnerving
experience. They have given up politics and taken to doing
good.</p>

		</article>
	</body>
</html>
