<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-US">
	<head>
		<title>the-treasure-ship</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<article id="the-treasure-ship" epub:type="se:short-story">
			<h2>The Treasure Ship</h2>
<p>The great galleon lay in semi-retirement under the sand and
weed and water of the northern bay where the fortune of war and
weather had long ago ensconced it. Three and a quarter
centuries had passed since the day when it had taken the high
seas as an important unit of a fighting squadron—precisely
which squadron the learned were not agreed. The galleon had
brought nothing into the world, but it had, according to
tradition and report, taken much out of it. But how
much? There again the learned were in disagreement.
Some were as generous in their estimate as an income-tax
assessor, others applied a species of higher criticism to the
submerged treasure chests, and debased their contents to the
currency of goblin gold. Of the former school was Lulu,
Duchess of Dulverton.</p>
<p>The Duchess was not only a believer in the existence of a
sunken treasure of alluring proportions; she also believed that
she knew of a method by which the said treasure might be
precisely located and cheaply disembedded. An aunt on her
mother’s side of the family had been Maid of Honour at the
Court of Monaco, and had taken a respectful interest in the
deep-sea researches in which the Throne of that country,
impatient perhaps of its terrestrial restrictions, was wont to
immerse itself. It was through the instrumentality of this
relative that the Duchess learned of an invention, perfected and
very nearly patented by a Monegaskan savant, by means of which
the home-life of the Mediterranean sardine might be studied at a
depth of many fathoms in a cold white light of more than
ball-room brilliancy. Implicated in this invention (and, in
the Duchess’s eyes, the most attractive part of it) was an
electric suction dredge, specially designed for dragging to the
surface such objects of interest and value as might be found in
the more accessible levels of the ocean-bed. The rights of
the invention were to be acquired for a matter of eighteen
hundred francs, and the apparatus for a few thousand more.
The Duchess of Dulverton was rich, as the world counted wealth;
she nursed the hope, of being one day rich at her own
computation. Companies had been formed and efforts had been
made again and again during the course of three centuries to
probe for the alleged treasures of the interesting galleon; with
the aid of this invention she considered that she might go to
work on the wreck privately and independently. After all,
one of her ancestors on her mother’s side was descended
from Medina Sidonia, so she was of opinion that she had as much
right to the treasure as anyone. She acquired the invention
and bought the apparatus.</p>
<p>Among other family ties and encumbrances, Lulu possessed a
nephew, Vasco Honiton, a young gentleman who was blessed with a
small income and a large circle of relatives, and lived
impartially and precariously on both. The name Vasco had
been given him possibly in the hope that he might live up to its
adventurous tradition, but he limited himself strictly to the
home industry of adventurer, preferring to exploit the assured
rather than to explore the unknown. Lulu’s
intercourse with him had been restricted of recent years to the
negative processes of being out of town when he called on her,
and short of money when he wrote to her. Now, however, she
bethought herself of his eminent suitability for the direction of
a treasure-seeking experiment; if anyone could extract gold from
an unpromising situation it would certainly be Vasco—of
course, under the necessary safeguards in the way of
supervision. Where money was in question Vasco’s
conscience was liable to fits of obstinate silence.</p>
<p>Somewhere on the west coast of Ireland the Dulverton property
included a few acres of shingle, rock, and heather, too barren to
support even an agrarian outrage, but embracing a small and
fairly deep bay where the lobster yield was good in most
seasons. There was a bleak little house on the property,
and for those who liked lobsters and solitude, and were able to
accept an Irish cook’s ideas as to what might be
perpetrated in the name of mayonnaise, Innisgluther was a
tolerable exile during the summer months. Lulu seldom went
there herself, but she lent the house lavishly to friends and
relations. She put it now at Vasco’s disposal.</p>
<p>“It will be the very place to practise and experiment
with the salvage apparatus,” she said; “the bay is
quite deep in places, and you will be able to test everything
thoroughly before starting on the treasure hunt.”</p>
<p>In less than three weeks Vasco turned up in town to report
progress.</p>
<p>“The apparatus works beautifully,” he informed his
aunt; “the deeper one got the clearer everything
grew. We found something in the way of a sunken wreck to
operate on, too!”</p>
<p>“A wreck in Innisgluther Bay!” exclaimed Lulu.</p>
<p>“A submerged motor-boat, the <i>Sub-Rosa</i>,”
said Vasco.</p>
<p>“No! really?” said Lulu; “poor Billy
Yuttley’s boat. I remember it went down somewhere off
that coast some three years ago. His body was washed ashore
at the Point. People said at the time that the boat was
capsized intentionally—a case of suicide, you know.
People always say that sort of thing when anything tragic
happens.”</p>
<p>“In this case they were right,” said Vasco.</p>
<p>“What do you mean?” asked the Duchess
hurriedly. “What makes you think so?”</p>
<p>“I know,” said Vasco simply.</p>
<p>“Know? How can you know? How can anyone
know? The thing happened three years ago.”</p>
<p>“In a locker of the <i>Sub-Rosa</i> I found a
water-tight strong-box. It contained papers.”
Vasco paused with dramatic effect and searched for a moment in
the inner breast-pocket of his coat. He drew out a folded
slip of paper. The Duchess snatched at it in almost
indecent haste and moved appreciably nearer the fireplace.</p>
<p>“Was this in the <i>Sub-Rosa’s</i>
strong-box?” she asked.</p>
<p>“Oh no,” said Vasco carelessly, “that is a
list of the well-known people who would be involved in a very
disagreeable scandal if the <i>Sub-Rosa’s</i> papers were
made public. I’ve put you at the head of it,
otherwise it follows alphabetical order.”</p>
<p>The Duchess gazed helplessly at the string of names, which
seemed for the moment to include nearly every one she knew.
As a matter of fact, her own name at the head of the list
exercised an almost paralysing effect on her thinking
faculties.</p>
<p>“Of course you have destroyed the papers?” she
asked, when she had somewhat recovered herself. She was
conscious that she made the remark with an entire lack of
conviction.</p>
<p>Vasco shook his head.</p>
<p>“But you should have,” said Lulu angrily;
“if, as you say, they are highly
compromising—”</p>
<p>“Oh, they are, I assure you of that,” interposed
the young man.</p>
<p>“Then you should put them out of harm’s way at
once. Supposing anything should leak out, think of all
these poor, unfortunate people who would be involved in the
disclosures,” and Lulu tapped the list with an agitated
gesture.</p>
<p>“Unfortunate, perhaps, but not poor,” corrected
Vasco; “if you read the list carefully you’ll notice
that I haven’t troubled to include anyone whose financial
standing isn’t above question.”</p>
<p>Lulu glared at her nephew for some moments in silence.
Then she asked hoarsely: “What are you going to
do?”</p>
<p>“Nothing—for the remainder of my life,” he
answered meaningly. “A little hunting,
perhaps,” he continued, “and I shall have a villa at
Florence. The Villa Sub-Rosa would sound rather quaint and
picturesque, don’t you think, and quite a lot of people
would be able to attach a meaning to the name. And I
suppose I must have a hobby; I shall probably collect
Raeburns.”</p>
<p>Lulu’s relative, who lived at the Court of Monaco, got
quite a snappish answer when she wrote recommending some further
invention in the realm of marine research.</p>

		</article>
	</body>
</html>
