<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-US">
	<head>
		<title>the-romancers</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<article id="the-romancers" epub:type="se:short-story">
			<h2>The Romancers</h2>
<p>It was autumn in London, that blessed season between the
harshness of winter and the insincerities of summer; a trustful
season when one buys bulbs and sees to the registration of
one’s vote, believing perpetually in spring and a change of
Government.</p>
<p>Morton Crosby sat on a bench in a secluded corner of Hyde
Park, lazily enjoying a cigarette and watching the slow grazing
promenade of a pair of snow-geese, the male looking rather like
an albino edition of the russet-hued female. Out of the
corner of his eye Crosby also noted with some interest the
hesitating hoverings of a human figure, which had passed and
repassed his seat two or three times at shortening intervals,
like a wary crow about to alight near some possibly edible
morsel. Inevitably the figure came to an anchorage on the
bench, within easy talking distance of its original
occupant. The uncared-for clothes, the aggressive, grizzled
beard, and the furtive, evasive eye of the new-comer bespoke the
professional cadger, the man who would undergo hours of
humiliating tale-spinning and rebuff rather than adventure on
half a day’s decent work.</p>
<p>For a while the new-comer fixed his eyes straight in front of
him in a strenuous, unseeing gaze; then his voice broke out with
the insinuating inflection of one who has a story to retail well
worth any loiterer’s while to listen to.</p>
<p>“It’s a strange world,” he said.</p>
<p>As the statement met with no response he altered it to the
form of a question.</p>
<p>“I daresay you’ve found it to be a strange world,
mister?”</p>
<p>“As far as I am concerned,” said Crosby,
“the strangeness has worn off in the course of thirty-six
years.”</p>
<p>“Ah,” said the greybeard, “I could tell you
things that you’d hardly believe. Marvellous things
that have really happened to me.”</p>
<p>“Nowadays there is no demand for marvellous things that
have really happened,” said Crosby discouragingly;
“the professional writers of fiction turn these things out
so much better. For instance, my neighbours tell me
wonderful, incredible things that their Aberdeens and chows and
borzois have done; I never listen to them. On the other
hand, I have read ‘The Hound of the Baskervilles’
three times.”</p>
<p>The greybeard moved uneasily in his seat; then he opened up
new country.</p>
<p>“I take it that you are a professing Christian,”
he observed.</p>
<p>“I am a prominent and I think I may say an influential
member of the Mussulman community of Eastern Persia,” said
Crosby, making an excursion himself into the realms of
fiction.</p>
<p>The greybeard was obviously disconcerted at this new check to
introductory conversation, but the defeat was only momentary.</p>
<p>“Persia. I should never have taken you for a
Persian,” he remarked, with a somewhat aggrieved air.</p>
<p>“I am not,” said Crosby; “my father was an
Afghan.”</p>
<p>“An Afghan!” said the other, smitten into
bewildered silence for a moment. Then he recovered himself
and renewed his attack.</p>
<p>“Afghanistan. Ah! We’ve had some wars
with that country; now, I daresay, instead of fighting it we
might have learned something from it. A very wealthy
country, I believe. No real poverty there.”</p>
<p>He raised his voice on the word “poverty” with a
suggestion of intense feeling. Crosby saw the opening and
avoided it.</p>
<p>“It possesses, nevertheless, a number of highly talented
and ingenious beggars,” he said; “if I had not spoken
so disparagingly of marvellous things that have really happened I
would tell you the story of Ibrahim and the eleven camel-loads of
blotting-paper. Also I have forgotten exactly how it
ended.”</p>
<p>“My own life-story is a curious one,” said the
stranger, apparently stifling all desire to hear the history of
Ibrahim; “I was not always as you see me now.”</p>
<p>“We are supposed to undergo complete change in the
course of every seven years,” said Crosby, as an
explanation of the foregoing announcement.</p>
<p>“I mean I was not always in such distressing
circumstances as I am at present,” pursued the stranger
doggedly.</p>
<p>“That sounds rather rude,” said Crosby stiffly,
“considering that you are at present talking to a man
reputed to be one of the most gifted conversationalists of the
Afghan border.”</p>
<p>“I don’t mean in that way,” said the
greybeard hastily; “I’ve been very much interested in
your conversation. I was alluding to my unfortunate
financial situation. You mayn’t hardly believe it,
but at the present moment I am absolutely without a
farthing. Don’t see any prospect of getting any
money, either, for the next few days. I don’t suppose
you’ve ever found yourself in such a position,” he
added.</p>
<p>“In the town of Yom,” said Crosby, “which is
in Southern Afghanistan, and which also happens to be my
birthplace, there was a Chinese philosopher who used to say that
one of the three chiefest human blessings was to be absolutely
without money. I forget what the other two were.”</p>
<p>“Ah, I daresay,” said the stranger, in a tone that
betrayed no enthusiasm for the philosopher’s memory;
“and did he practise what he preached? That’s
the test.”</p>
<p>“He lived happily with very little money or
resources,” said Crosby.</p>
<p>“Then I expect he had friends who would help him
liberally whenever he was in difficulties, such as I am in at
present.”</p>
<p>“In Yom,” said Crosby, “it is not necessary
to have friends in order to obtain help. Any citizen of Yom
would help a stranger as a matter of course.”</p>
<p>The greybeard was now genuinely interested.</p>
<p>The conversation had at last taken a favourable turn.</p>
<p>“If someone, like me, for instance, who was in
undeserved difficulties, asked a citizen of that town you speak
of for a small loan to tide over a few days’
impecuniosity—five shillings, or perhaps a rather larger
sum—would it be given to him as a matter of
course?”</p>
<p>“There would be a certain preliminary,” said
Crosby; “one would take him to a wine-shop and treat him to
a measure of wine, and then, after a little high-flown
conversation, one would put the desired sum in his hand and wish
him good-day. It is a roundabout way of performing a simple
transaction, but in the East all ways are roundabout.”</p>
<p>The listener’s eyes were glittering.</p>
<p>“Ah,” he exclaimed, with a thin sneer ringing
meaningly through his words, “I suppose you’ve given
up all those generous customs since you left your town.
Don’t practise them now, I expect.”</p>
<p>“No one who has lived in Yom,” said Crosby
fervently, “and remembers its green hills covered with
apricot and almond trees, and the cold water that rushes down
like a caress from the upland snows and dashes under the little
wooden bridges, no one who remembers these things and treasures
the memory of them would ever give up a single one of its
unwritten laws and customs. To me they are as binding as
though I still lived in that hallowed home of my
youth.”</p>
<p>“Then if I was to ask you for a small loan—”
began the greybeard fawningly, edging nearer on the seat and
hurriedly wondering how large he might safely make his request,
“if I was to ask you for, say—”</p>
<p>“At any other time, certainly,” said Crosby;
“in the months of November and December, however, it is
absolutely forbidden for anyone of our race to give or receive
loans or gifts; in fact, one does not willingly speak of
them. It is considered unlucky. We will therefore
close this discussion.”</p>
<p>“But it is still October!” exclaimed the
adventurer with an eager, angry whine, as Crosby rose from his
seat; “wants eight days to the end of the month!”</p>
<p>“The Afghan November began yesterday,” said Crosby
severely, and in another moment he was striding across the Park,
leaving his recent companion scowling and muttering furiously on
the seat.</p>
<p>“I don’t believe a word of his story,” he
chattered to himself; “pack of nasty lies from beginning to
end. Wish I’d told him so to his face. Calling
himself an Afghan!”</p>
<p>The snorts and snarls that escaped from him for the next
quarter of an hour went far to support the truth of the old
saying that two of a trade never agree.</p>

		</article>
	</body>
</html>
