<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-US">
	<head>
		<title>the-seventh-pullet</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<article id="the-seventh-pullet" epub:type="se:short-story">
			<h2>The Seventh Pullet</h2>
<p>“It’s not the daily grind that I complain
of,” said Blenkinthrope resentfully; “it’s the
dull grey sameness of my life outside of office hours.
Nothing of interest comes my way, nothing remarkable or out of
the common. Even the little things that I do try to find
some interest in don’t seem to interest other people.
Things in my garden, for instance.”</p>
<p>“The potato that weighed just over two pounds,”
said his friend Gorworth.</p>
<p>“Did I tell you about that?” said Blenkinthrope;
“I was telling the others in the train this morning.
I forgot if I’d told you.”</p>
<p>“To be exact you told me that it weighed just under two
pounds, but I took into account the fact that abnormal vegetables
and freshwater fish have an after-life, in which growth is not
arrested.”</p>
<p>“You’re just like the others,” said
Blenkinthrope sadly, “you only make fun of it.”</p>
<p>“The fault is with the potato, not with us,” said
Gorworth; “we are not in the least interested in it because
it is not in the least interesting. The men you go up in
the train with every day are just in the same case as yourself;
their lives are commonplace and not very interesting to
themselves, and they certainly are not going to wax enthusiastic
over the commonplace events in other men’s lives.
Tell them something startling, dramatic, piquant that has
happened to yourself or to someone in your family, and you will
capture their interest at once. They will talk about you
with a certain personal pride to all their acquaintances.
‘Man I know intimately, fellow called Blenkinthrope, lives
down my way, had two of his fingers clawed clean off by a lobster
he was carrying home to supper. Doctor says entire hand may
have to come off.’ Now that is conversation of a very
high order. But imagine walking into a tennis club with the
remark: ‘I know a man who has grown a potato weighing two
and a quarter pounds.’”</p>
<p>“But hang it all, my dear fellow,” said
Blenkinthrope impatiently, “haven’t I just told you
that nothing of a remarkable nature ever happens to
me?”</p>
<p>“Invent something,” said Gorworth. Since
winning a prize for excellence in Scriptural knowledge at a
preparatory school he had felt licensed to be a little more
unscrupulous than the circle he moved in. Much might surely
be excused to one who in early life could give a list of
seventeen trees mentioned in the Old Testament.</p>
<p>“What sort of thing?” asked Blenkinthrope,
somewhat snappishly.</p>
<p>“A snake got into your hen-run yesterday morning and
killed six out of seven pullets, first mesmerising them with its
eyes and then biting them as they stood helpless. The
seventh pullet was one of that French sort, with feathers all
over its eyes, so it escaped the mesmeric snare, and just flew at
what it could see of the snake and pecked it to
pieces.”</p>
<p>“Thank you,” said Blenkinthrope stiffly;
“it’s a very clever invention. If such a thing
had really happened in my poultry-run I admit I should have been
proud and interested to tell people about it. But I’d
rather stick to fact, even if it is plain fact.” All
the same his mind dwelt wistfully on the story of the Seventh
Pullet. He could picture himself telling it in the train
amid the absorbed interest of his fellow-passengers.
Unconsciously all sorts of little details and improvements began
to suggest themselves.</p>
<p>Wistfulness was still his dominant mood when he took his seat
in the railway carriage the next morning. Opposite him sat
Stevenham, who had attained to a recognised brevet of importance
through the fact of an uncle having dropped dead in the act of
voting at a Parliamentary election. That had happened three
years ago, but Stevenham was still deferred to on all questions
of home and foreign politics.</p>
<p>“Hullo, how’s the giant mushroom, or whatever it
was?” was all the notice Blenkinthrope got from his fellow
travellers.</p>
<p>Young Duckby, whom he mildly disliked, speedily monopolised
the general attention by an account of a domestic
bereavement.</p>
<p>“Had four young pigeons carried off last night by a
whacking big rat. Oh, a monster he must have been; you
could tell by the size of the hole he made breaking into the
loft.”</p>
<p>No moderate-sized rat ever seemed to carry out any predatory
operations in these regions; they were all enormous in their
enormity.</p>
<p>“Pretty hard lines that,” continued Duckby, seeing
that he had secured the attention and respect of the company;
“four squeakers carried off at one swoop. You’d
find it rather hard to match that in the way of unlooked-for bad
luck.”</p>
<p>“I had six pullets out of a pen of seven killed by a
snake yesterday afternoon,” said Blenkinthrope, in a voice
which he hardly recognised as his own.</p>
<p>“By a snake?” came in excited chorus.</p>
<p>“It fascinated them with its deadly, glittering eyes,
one after the other, and struck them down while they stood
helpless. A bedridden neighbour, who wasn’t able to
call for assistance, witnessed it all from her bedroom
window.”</p>
<p>“Well, I never!” broke in the chorus, with
variations.</p>
<p>“The interesting part of it is about the seventh pullet,
the one that didn’t get killed,” resumed
Blenkinthrope, slowly lighting a cigarette. His diffidence
had left him, and he was beginning to realise how safe and easy
depravity can seem once one has the courage to begin.
“The six dead birds were Minorcas; the seventh was a Houdan
with a mop of feathers all over its eyes. It could hardly
see the snake at all, so of course it wasn’t mesmerised
like the others. It just could see something wriggling on
the ground, and went for it and pecked it to death.”</p>
<p>“Well, I’m blessed!” exclaimed the
chorus.</p>
<p>In the course of the next few days Blenkinthrope discovered
how little the loss of one’s self-respect affects one when
one has gained the esteem of the world. His story found its
way into one of the poultry papers, and was copied thence into a
daily news-sheet as a matter of general interest. A lady
wrote from the North of Scotland recounting a similar episode
which she had witnessed as occurring between a stoat and a blind
grouse. Somehow a lie seems so much less reprehensible when
one can call it a lee.</p>
<p>For awhile the adapter of the Seventh Pullet story enjoyed to
the full his altered standing as a person of consequence, one who
had had some share in the strange events of his times. Then
he was thrust once again into the cold grey background by the
sudden blossoming into importance of Smith-Paddon, a daily
fellow-traveller, whose little girl had been knocked down and
nearly hurt by a car belonging to a musical-comedy actress.
The actress was not in the car at the time, but she was in
numerous photographs which appeared in the illustrated papers of
Zoto Dobreen inquiring after the well-being of Maisie, daughter
of Edmund Smith-Paddon, Esq. With this new human interest
to absorb them the travelling companions were almost rude when
Blenkinthrope tried to explain his contrivance for keeping vipers
and peregrine falcons out of his chicken-run.</p>
<p>Gorworth, to whom he unburdened himself in private, gave him
the same counsel as heretofore.</p>
<p>“Invent something.”</p>
<p>“Yes, but what?”</p>
<p>The ready affirmative coupled with the question betrayed a
significant shifting of the ethical standpoint.</p>
<p>It was a few days later that Blenkinthrope revealed a chapter
of family history to the customary gathering in the railway
carriage.</p>
<p>“Curious thing happened to my aunt, the one who lives in
Paris,” he began. He had several aunts, but they were
all geographically distributed over Greater London.</p>
<p>“She was sitting on a seat in the Bois the other
afternoon, after lunching at the Roumanian Legation.”</p>
<p>Whatever the story gained in picturesqueness from the
dragging-in of diplomatic “atmosphere,” it ceased
from that moment to command any acceptance as a record of current
events. Gorworth had warned his neophyte that this would be
the case, but the traditional enthusiasm of the neophyte had
triumphed over discretion.</p>
<p>“She was feeling rather drowsy, the effect probably of
the champagne, which she’s not in the habit of taking in
the middle of the day.”</p>
<p>A subdued murmur of admiration went round the company.
Blenkinthrope’s aunts were not used to taking champagne in
the middle of the year, regarding it exclusively as a Christmas
and New Year accessory.</p>
<p>“Presently a rather portly gentleman passed by her seat
and paused an instant to light a cigar. At that moment a
youngish man came up behind him, drew the blade from a
swordstick, and stabbed him half a dozen times through and
through. ‘Scoundrel,’ he cried to his victim,
‘you do not know me. My name is Henri
Leturc.’ The elder man wiped away some of the blood
that was spattering his clothes, turned to his assailant, and
said: ‘And since when has an attempted assassination been
considered an introduction?’ Then he finished
lighting his cigar and walked away. My aunt had intended
screaming for the police, but seeing the indifference with which
the principal in the affair treated the matter she felt that it
would be an impertinence on her part to interfere. Of
course I need hardly say she put the whole thing down to the
effects of a warm, drowsy afternoon and the Legation
champagne. Now comes the astonishing part of my
story. A fortnight later a bank manager was stabbed to
death with a swordstick in that very part of the Bois. His
assassin was the son of a charwoman formerly working at the bank,
who had been dismissed from her job by the manager on account of
chronic intemperance. His name was Henri Leturc.”</p>
<p>From that moment Blenkinthrope was tacitly accepted as the
Munchausen of the party. No effort was spared to draw him
out from day to day in the exercise of testing their powers of
credulity, and Blenkinthrope, in the false security of an assured
and receptive audience, waxed industrious and ingenious in
supplying the demand for marvels. Duckby’s satirical
story of a tame otter that had a tank in the garden to swim in,
and whined restlessly whenever the water-rate was overdue, was
scarcely an unfair parody of some of Blenkinthrope’s wilder
efforts. And then one day came Nemesis.</p>
<p>Returning to his villa one evening Blenkinthrope found his
wife sitting in front of a pack of cards, which she was
scrutinising with unusual concentration.</p>
<p>“The same old patience-game?” he asked
carelessly.</p>
<p>“No, dear; this is the Death’s Head patience, the
most difficult of them all. I’ve never got it to work
out, and somehow I should be rather frightened if I did.
Mother only got it out once in her life; she was afraid of it,
too. Her great-aunt had done it once and fallen dead from
excitement the next moment, and mother always had a feeling that
she would die if she ever got it out. She died the same
night that she did it. She was in bad health at the time,
certainly, but it was a strange coincidence.”</p>
<p>“Don’t do it if it frightens you,” was
Blenkinthrope’s practical comment as he left the
room. A few minutes later his wife called to him.</p>
<p>“John, it gave me such a turn, I nearly got it
out. Only the five of diamonds held me up at the end.
I really thought I’d done it.”</p>
<p>“Why, you can do it,” said Blenkinthrope, who had
come back to the room; “if you shift the eight of clubs on
to that open nine the five can be moved on to the six.”</p>
<p>His wife made the suggested move with hasty, trembling
fingers, and piled the outstanding cards on to their respective
packs. Then she followed the example of her mother and
great-grand-aunt.</p>
<p>Blenkinthrope had been genuinely fond of his wife, but in the
midst of his bereavement one dominant thought obtruded
itself. Something sensational and real had at last come
into his life; no longer was it a grey, colourless record.
The headlines which might appropriately describe his domestic
tragedy kept shaping themselves in his brain.
“Inherited presentiment comes true.” “The
Death’s Head patience: Card-game that justified its
sinister name in three generations.” He wrote out a
full story of the fatal occurrence for the <i>Essex Vedette</i>,
the editor of which was a friend of his, and to another friend he
gave a condensed account, to be taken up to the office of one of
the halfpenny dailies. But in both cases his reputation as
a romancer stood fatally in the way of the fulfilment of his
ambitions. “Not the right thing to be Munchausening
in a time of sorrow” agreed his friends among themselves,
and a brief note of regret at the “sudden death of the wife
of our respected neighbour, Mr. John Blenkinthrope, from heart
failure,” appearing in the news column of the local paper
was the forlorn outcome of his visions of widespread
publicity.</p>
<p>Blenkinthrope shrank from the society of his erstwhile
travelling companions and took to travelling townwards by an
earlier train. He sometimes tries to enlist the sympathy
and attention of a chance acquaintance in details of the
whistling prowess of his best canary or the dimensions of his
largest beetroot; he scarcely recognises himself as the man who
was once spoken about and pointed out as the owner of the Seventh
Pullet.</p>

		</article>
	</body>
</html>
