<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-US">
	<head>
		<title>the-threat</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<article id="the-threat" epub:type="se:short-story">
			<h2>The Threat</h2>
<p>Sir Lulworth Quayne sat in the lounge of his favourite
restaurant, the Gallus Bankiva, discussing the weaknesses of the
world with his nephew, who had lately returned from a
much-enlivened exile in the wilds of Mexico. It was that
blessed season of the year when the asparagus and the
plover’s egg are abroad in the land, and the oyster has not
yet withdrawn into it’s summer entrenchments, and Sir
Lulworth and his nephew were in that enlightened after-dinner
mood when politics are seen in their right perspective, even the
politics of Mexico.</p>
<p>“Most of the revolutions that take place in this country
nowadays,” said Sir Lulworth, “are the product of
moments of legislative panic. Take, for instance, one of
the most dramatic reforms that has been carried through
Parliament in the lifetime of this generation. It happened
shortly after the coal strike, of unblessed memory. To you,
who have been plunged up to the neck in events of a more tangled
and tumbled description, the things I am going to tell you of may
seem of secondary interest, but after all we had to live in the
midst of them.”</p>
<p>Sir Lulworth interrupted himself for a moment to say a few
kind words to the liqueur brandy he had just tasted, and them
resumed his narrative.</p>
<p>“Whether one sympathises with the agitation for female
suffrage or not one has to admit that its promoters showed
tireless energy and considerable enterprise in devising and
putting into action new methods for accomplishing their
ends. As a rule they were a nuisance and a weariness to the
flesh, but there were times when they verged on the
picturesque. There was the famous occasion when they
enlivened and diversified the customary pageantry of the Royal
progress to open Parliament by letting loose thousands of
parrots, which had been carefully trained to scream ‘Votes
for women,’ and which circled round his Majesty’s
coach in a clamorous cloud of green, and grey and scarlet.
It was really rather a striking episode from the spectacular
point of view; unfortunately, however, for its devisers, the
secret of their intentions had not been well kept, and their
opponents let loose at the same moment a rival swarm of parrots,
which screeched ‘I <i>don’t</i> think’ and
other hostile cries, thereby robbing the demonstration of the
unanimity which alone could have made it politically
impressive. In the process of recapture the birds learned a
quantity of additional language which unfitted them for further
service in the Suffragette cause; some of the green ones were
secured by ardent Home Rule propagandists and trained to disturb
the serenity of Orange meetings by pessimistic reflections on Sir
Edward Carson’s destination in the life to come. In
fact, the bird in politics is a factor that seems to have come to
stay; quite recently, at a political gathering held in a
dimly-lighted place of worship, the congregation gave a
respectful hearing for nearly ten minutes to a jackdaw from
Wapping, under the impression that they were listening to the
Chancellor of the Exchequer, who was late in arriving.”</p>
<p>“But the Suffragettes,” interrupted the nephew;
“what did they do next?”</p>
<p>“After the bird fiasco,” said Sir Lulworth,
“the militant section made a demonstration of a more
aggressive nature; they assembled in force on the opening day of
the Royal Academy Exhibition and destroyed some three or four
hundred of the pictures. This proved an even worse failure
than the parrot business; every one agreed that there were always
far too many pictures in the Academy Exhibition, and the drastic
weeding out of a few hundred canvases was regarded as a positive
improvement. Moreover, from the artists’ point of
view it was realised that the outrage constituted a sort of
compensation for those whose works were persistently
‘skied’, since out of sight meant also out of
reach. Altogether it was one of the most successful and
popular exhibitions that the Academy had held for many
years. Then the fair agitators fell back on some of their
earlier methods; they wrote sweetly argumentative plays to prove
that they ought to have the vote, they smashed windows to show
that they must have the vote, and they kicked Cabinet Ministers
to demonstrate that they’d better have the vote, and still
the coldly reasoned or unreasoned reply was that they’d
better not. Their plight might have been summed up in a
perversion of Gilbert’s lines—</p>
<blockquote><p>“Twenty voteless millions we,<br />
 Voteless all against our will,<br />
Twenty years hence we shall be<br />
 Twenty voteless millions still.”</p>
</blockquote>
<p>And of course the great idea for their master-stroke of
strategy came from a masculine source. Lena Dubarri, who
was the captain-general of their thinking department, met Waldo
Orpington in the Mall one afternoon, just at a time when the
fortunes of the Cause were at their lowest ebb. Waldo
Orpington is a frivolous little fool who chirrups at drawing-room
concerts and can recognise bits from different composers without
referring to the programme, but all the same he occasionally has
ideas. He didn’t care a twopenny fiddlestring about
the Cause, but he rather enjoyed the idea of having his finger in
the political pie. Also it is possible, though I should
think highly improbable, that he admired Lena Dubarri.
Anyhow, when Lena gave a rather gloomy account of the existing
state of things in the Suffragette World, Waldo was not merely
sympathetic but ready with a practical suggestion. Turning
his gaze westward along the Mall, towards the setting sun and
Buckingham Palace, he was silent for a moment, and then said
significantly, ‘You have expended your energies and
enterprise on labours of destruction; why has it never occurred
to you to attempt something far more terrific?’</p>
<p>“‘What do you mean?’ she asked him
eagerly.</p>
<p>“‘Create.’</p>
<p>“‘Do you mean create disturbances?
We’ve been doing nothing else for months,’ she
said.</p>
<p>“Waldo shook his head, and continued to look westward
along the Mall. He’s rather good at acting in an
amateur sort of fashion. Lena followed his gaze, and then
turned to him with a puzzled look of inquiry.</p>
<p>“‘Exactly,’ said Waldo, in answer to her
look.</p>
<p>“‘But—how can we create?’ she asked;
‘it’s been done already.’</p>
<p>“‘Do it <i>again</i>,’ said Waldo,
‘and again and again—’</p>
<p>“Before he could finish the sentence she had kissed
him. She declared afterwards that he was the first man she
had ever kissed, and he declared that she was the first woman who
had ever kissed him in the Mall, so they both secured a record of
a kind.</p>
<p>“Within the next day or two a new departure was
noticeable in Suffragette tactics. They gave up worrying
Ministers and Parliament and took to worrying their own
sympathisers and supporters—for funds. The ballot-box
was temporarily forgotten in the cult of the
collecting-box. The daughters of the horseleech were not
more persistent in their demands, the financiers of the tottering
<i>ancien régime</i> were not more desperate in their
expedients for raising money than the Suffragist workers of all
sections at this juncture, and in one way and another, by fair
means and normal, they really got together a very useful
sum. What they were going to do with it no one seemed to
know, not even those who were most active in collecting
work. The secret on this occasion had been well kept.
Certain transactions that leaked out from time to time only added
to the mystery of the situation.</p>
<p>“‘Don’t you long to know what we are going
to do with our treasure hoard?’ Lena asked the Prime
Minister one day when she happened to sit next to him at a whist
drive at the Chinese Embassy.</p>
<p>“‘I was hoping you were going to try a little
personal bribery,’ he responded banteringly, but some
genuine anxiety and curiosity lay behind the lightness of his
chaff; ‘of course I know,’ he added, ‘that you
have been buying up building sites in commanding situations in
and around the Metropolis. Two or three, I’m told,
are on the road to Brighton, and another near Ascot. You
don’t mean to fortify them, do you?’</p>
<p>“‘Something more insidious than that,’ she
said; ‘you could prevent us from building forts; you
can’t prevent us from erecting an exact replica of the
Victoria Memorial on each of those sites. They’re all
private property, with no building restrictions
attached.’</p>
<p>“‘Which memorial?’ he asked; ‘not the
one in front of Buckingham Palace? Surely not that
one?’</p>
<p>“‘That one,’ she said.</p>
<p>“‘My dear lady,’ he cried, ‘you
can’t be serious. It is a beautiful and imposing work
of art—at any rate one is getting accustomed to it, and
even if one doesn’t happen to admire it one can always look
in another direction. But imagine what life would be like
if one saw that erection confronting one wherever one went.
Imagine the effect on people with tired, harassed nerves who saw
it three times on the way to Brighton and three times on the way
back. Imagine seeing it dominate the landscape at Ascot,
and trying to keep your eye off it on the Sandwich golf
links. What have your countrymen done to deserve such a
thing?’</p>
<p>“‘They have refused us the vote,’ said Lena
bitterly.</p>
<p>“The Prime Minister always declared himself an opponent
of anything savouring of panic legislation, but he brought a Bill
into Parliament forthwith and successfully appealed to both
Houses to pass it through all its stages within the week.
And that is how we got one of the most glorious measures of the
century.”</p>
<p>“A measure conferring the vote on women?” asked
the nephew.</p>
<p>“Oh dear, no. An Act which made it a penal offence
to erect commemorative statuary anywhere within three miles of a
public highway.”</p>

		</article>
	</body>
</html>
