<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-US">
	<head>
		<title>the-stalled-ox</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<article id="the-stalled-ox" epub:type="se:short-story">
			<h2>The Stalled Ox</h2>
<p>Theophil Eshley was an artist by profession, a cattle painter
by force of environment. It is not to be supposed that he
lived on a ranche or a dairy farm, in an atmosphere pervaded with
horn and hoof, milking-stool, and branding-iron. His home
was in a park-like, villa-dotted district that only just escaped
the reproach of being suburban. On one side of his garden
there abutted a small, picturesque meadow, in which an
enterprising neighbour pastured some small picturesque cows of
the Channel Island persuasion. At noonday in summertime the
cows stood knee-deep in tall meadow-grass under the shade of a
group of walnut trees, with the sunlight falling in dappled
patches on their mouse-sleek coats. Eshley had conceived
and executed a dainty picture of two reposeful milch-cows in a
setting of walnut tree and meadow-grass and filtered sunbeam, and
the Royal Academy had duly exposed the same on the walls of its
Summer Exhibition. The Royal Academy encourages orderly,
methodical habits in its children. Eshley had painted a
successful and acceptable picture of cattle drowsing
picturesquely under walnut trees, and as he had begun, so, of
necessity, he went on. His “Noontide Peace,” a
study of two dun cows under a walnut tree, was followed by
“A Mid-day Sanctuary,” a study of a walnut tree, with
two dun cows under it. In due succession there came
“Where the Gad-Flies Cease from Troubling,”
“The Haven of the Herd,” and “A-dream in
Dairyland,” studies of walnut trees and dun cows. His
two attempts to break away from his own tradition were signal
failures: “Turtle Doves alarmed by Sparrow-hawk” and
“Wolves on the Roman Campagna” came back to his
studio in the guise of abominable heresies, and Eshley climbed
back into grace and the public gaze with “A Shaded Nook
where Drowsy Milkers Dream.”</p>
<p>On a fine afternoon in late autumn he was putting some
finishing touches to a study of meadow weeds when his neighbour,
Adela Pingsford, assailed the outer door of his studio with loud
peremptory knockings.</p>
<p>“There is an ox in my garden,” she announced, in
explanation of the tempestuous intrusion.</p>
<p>“An ox,” said Eshley blankly, and rather
fatuously; “what kind of ox?”</p>
<p>“Oh, I don’t know what kind,” snapped the
lady. “A common or garden ox, to use the slang
expression. It is the garden part of it that I object
to. My garden has just been put straight for the winter,
and an ox roaming about in it won’t improve matters.
Besides, there are the chrysanthemums just coming into
flower.”</p>
<p>“How did it get into the garden?” asked
Eshley.</p>
<p>“I imagine it came in by the gate,” said the lady
impatiently; “it couldn’t have climbed the walls, and
I don’t suppose anyone dropped it from an aeroplane as a
Bovril advertisement. The immediately important question is
not how it got in, but how to get it out.”</p>
<p>“Won’t it go?” said Eshley.</p>
<p>“If it was anxious to go,” said Adela Pingsford
rather angrily, “I should not have come here to chat with
you about it. I’m practically all alone; the
housemaid is having her afternoon out and the cook is lying down
with an attack of neuralgia. Anything that I may have
learned at school or in after life about how to remove a large ox
from a small garden seems to have escaped from my memory
now. All I could think of was that you were a near
neighbour and a cattle painter, presumably more or less familiar
with the subjects that you painted, and that you might be of some
slight assistance. Possibly I was mistaken.”</p>
<p>“I paint dairy cows, certainly,” admitted Eshley,
“but I cannot claim to have had any experience in
rounding-up stray oxen. I’ve seen it done on a cinema
film, of course, but there were always horses and lots of other
accessories; besides, one never knows how much of those pictures
are faked.”</p>
<p>Adela Pingsford said nothing, but led the way to her
garden. It was normally a fair-sized garden, but it looked
small in comparison with the ox, a huge mottled brute, dull red
about the head and shoulders, passing to dirty white on the
flanks and hind-quarters, with shaggy ears and large blood-shot
eyes. It bore about as much resemblance to the dainty
paddock heifers that Eshley was accustomed to paint as the chief
of a Kurdish nomad clan would to a Japanese tea-shop girl.
Eshley stood very near the gate while he studied the
animal’s appearance and demeanour. Adela Pingsford
continued to say nothing.</p>
<p>“It’s eating a chrysanthemum,” said Eshley
at last, when the silence had become unbearable.</p>
<p>“How observant you are,” said Adela
bitterly. “You seem to notice everything. As a
matter of fact, it has got six chrysanthemums in its mouth at the
present moment.”</p>
<p>The necessity for doing something was becoming
imperative. Eshley took a step or two in the direction of
the animal, clapped his hands, and made noises of the
“Hish” and “Shoo” variety. If the
ox heard them it gave no outward indication of the fact.</p>
<p>“If any hens should ever stray into my garden,”
said Adela, “I should certainly send for you to frighten
them out. You ‘shoo’ beautifully.
Meanwhile, do you mind trying to drive that ox away? That
is a <i>Mademoiselle Louise Bichot</i> that he’s begun on
now,” she added in icy calm, as a glowing orange head was
crushed into the huge munching mouth.</p>
<p>“Since you have been so frank about the variety of the
chrysanthemum,” said Eshley, “I don’t mind
telling you that this is an Ayrshire ox.”</p>
<p>The icy calm broke down; Adela Pingsford used language that
sent the artist instinctively a few feet nearer to the ox.
He picked up a pea-stick and flung it with some determination
against the animal’s mottled flanks. The operation of
mashing <i>Mademoiselle Louise Bichot</i> into a petal salad was
suspended for a long moment, while the ox gazed with concentrated
inquiry at the stick-thrower. Adela gazed with equal
concentration and more obvious hostility at the same focus.
As the beast neither lowered its head nor stamped its feet Eshley
ventured on another javelin exercise with another
pea-stick. The ox seemed to realise at once that it was to
go; it gave a hurried final pluck at the bed where the
chrysanthemums had been, and strode swiftly up the garden.
Eshley ran to head it towards the gate, but only succeeded in
quickening its pace from a walk to a lumbering trot. With
an air of inquiry, but with no real hesitation, it crossed the
tiny strip of turf that the charitable called the croquet lawn,
and pushed its way through the open French window into the
morning-room. Some chrysanthemums and other autumn herbage
stood about the room in vases, and the animal resumed its
browsing operations; all the same, Eshley fancied that the
beginnings of a hunted look had come into its eyes, a look that
counselled respect. He discontinued his attempt to
interfere with its choice of surroundings.</p>
<p>“Mr. Eshley,” said Adela in a shaking voice,
“I asked you to drive that beast out of my garden, but I
did not ask you to drive it into my house. If I must have
it anywhere on the premises I prefer the garden to the
morning-room.”</p>
<p>“Cattle drives are not in my line,” said Eshley;
“if I remember I told you so at the outset.”
“I quite agree,” retorted the lady, “painting
pretty pictures of pretty little cows is what you’re suited
for. Perhaps you’d like to do a nice sketch of that
ox making itself at home in my morning-room?”</p>
<p>This time it seemed as if the worm had turned; Eshley began
striding away.</p>
<p>“Where are you going?” screamed Adela.</p>
<p>“To fetch implements,” was the answer.</p>
<p>“Implements? I won’t have you use a
lasso. The room will be wrecked if there’s a
struggle.”</p>
<p>But the artist marched out of the garden. In a couple of
minutes he returned, laden with easel, sketching-stool, and
painting materials.</p>
<p>“Do you mean to say that you’re going to sit
quietly down and paint that brute while it’s destroying my
morning-room?” gasped Adela.</p>
<p>“It was your suggestion,” said Eshley, setting his
canvas in position.</p>
<p>“I forbid it; I absolutely forbid it!” stormed
Adela.</p>
<p>“I don’t see what standing you have in the
matter,” said the artist; “you can hardly pretend
that it’s your ox, even by adoption.”</p>
<p>“You seem to forget that it’s in my morning-room,
eating my flowers,” came the raging retort.</p>
<p>“You seem to forget that the cook has neuralgia,”
said Eshley; “she may be just dozing off into a merciful
sleep and your outcry will waken her. Consideration for
others should be the guiding principle of people in our station
of life.”</p>
<p>“The man is mad!” exclaimed Adela
tragically. A moment later it was Adela herself who
appeared to go mad. The ox had finished the vase-flowers
and the cover of “Israel Kalisch,” and appeared to be
thinking of leaving its rather restricted quarters. Eshley
noticed its restlessness and promptly flung it some bunches of
Virginia creeper leaves as an inducement to continue the
sitting.</p>
<p>“I forget how the proverb runs,” he observed;
“of something about ‘better a dinner of herbs than a
stalled ox where hate is.’ We seem to have all the
ingredients for the proverb ready to hand.”</p>
<p>“I shall go to the Public Library and get them to
telephone for the police,” announced Adela, and, raging
audibly, she departed.</p>
<p>Some minutes later the ox, awakening probably to the suspicion
that oil cake and chopped mangold was waiting for it in some
appointed byre, stepped with much precaution out of the
morning-room, stared with grave inquiry at the no longer
obtrusive and pea-stick-throwing human, and then lumbered heavily
but swiftly out of the garden. Eshley packed up his tools
and followed the animal’s example and
“Larkdene” was left to neuralgia and the cook.</p>
<p>The episode was the turning-point in Eshley’s artistic
career. His remarkable picture, “Ox in a
morning-room, late autumn,” was one of the sensations and
successes of the next Paris Salon, and when it was subsequently
exhibited at Munich it was bought by the Bavarian Government, in
the teeth of the spirited bidding of three meat-extract
firms. From that moment his success was continuous and
assured, and the Royal Academy was thankful, two years later, to
give a conspicuous position on its walls to his large canvas
“Barbary Apes Wrecking a Boudoir.”</p>
<p>Eshley presented Adela Pingsford with a new copy of
“Israel Kalisch,” and a couple of finely flowering
plants of <i>Madame Adnré Blusset</i>, but nothing in the
nature of a real reconciliation has taken place between them.</p>

		</article>
	</body>
</html>
