<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-US">
	<head>
		<title>the-story-of-st-vespaluus</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<article id="the-story-of-st-vespaluus" epub:type="se:short-story">
			<h2>The Story of St. Vespaluus</h2>

<p>
"Tell me a story," said the Baroness, staring out despairingly at the
rain; it was that light, apologetic sort of rain that looks as if it
was going to leave off every minute and goes on for the greater part of
the afternoon.
</p>

<p>
"What sort of story?" asked Clovis, giving his croquet mallet a
valedictory shove into retirement.
</p>

<p>
"One just true enough to be interesting and not true enough to be
tiresome," said the Baroness.
</p>

<p>
Clovis rearranged several cushions to his personal solace and
satisfaction; he knew that the Baroness liked her guests to be
comfortable, and he thought it right to respect her wishes in that
particular.
</p>

<p>
"Have I ever told you the story of Saint Vespaluus?" he asked.
</p>

<p>
"You've told me stories about grand-dukes and lion-tamers and
financiers' widows and a postmaster in Herzegovina," said the Baroness,
"and about an Italian jockey and an amateur governess who went to
Warsaw, and several about your mother, but certainly never anything
about a saint."
</p>

<p>
"This story happened a long while ago," he said, "in those
uncomfortable piebald times when a third of the people were Pagan, and
a third Christian, and the biggest third of all just followed whichever
religion the Court happened to profess.  There was a certain king
called Hkrikros, who had a fearful temper and no immediate successor in
his own family; his married sister, however, had provided him with a
large stock of nephews from which to select his heir.  And the most
eligible and royally-approved of all these nephews was the
sixteen-year-old Vespaluus.  He was the best looking, and the best
horseman and javelin-thrower, and had that priceless princely gift of
being able to walk past a supplicant with an air of not having seen
him, but would certainly have given something if he had.  My mother has
that gift to a certain extent; she can go smilingly and financially
unscathed through a charity bazaar, and meet the organizers next day
with a solicitous 'had I but known you were in need of funds' air that
is really rather a triumph in audacity.  Now Hkrikros was a Pagan of
the first water, and kept the worship of the sacred serpents, who lived
in a hallowed grove on a hill near the royal palace, up to a high pitch
of enthusiasm.  The common people were allowed to please themselves,
within certain discreet limits, in the matter of private religion, but
any official in the service of the Court who went over to the new cult
was looked down on, literally as well as metaphorically, the looking
down being done from the gallery that ran round the royal bear-pit.
Consequently there was considerable scandal and consternation when the
youthful Vespaluus appeared one day at a Court function with a rosary
tucked into his belt, and announced in reply to angry questionings that
he had decided to adopt Christianity, or at any rate to give it a
trial. If it had been any of the other nephews the king would possibly
have ordered something drastic in the way of scourging and banishment,
but in the case of the favoured Vespaluus he determined to look on the
whole thing much as a modern father might regard the announced
intention of his son to adopt the stage as a profession.  He sent
accordingly for the Royal Librarian. The royal library in those days
was not a very extensive affair, and the keeper of the king's books had
a great deal of leisure on his hands.  Consequently he was in frequent
demand for the settlement of other people's affairs when these strayed
beyond normal limits and got temporarily unmanageable.
</p>

<p>
"'You must reason with Prince Vespaluus,' said the king, 'and impress
on him the error of his ways.  We cannot have the heir to the throne
setting such a dangerous example.'
</p>

<p>
"'But where shall I find the necessary arguments?' asked the Librarian.
</p>

<p>
"'I give you free leave to pick and choose your arguments in the royal
woods and coppices,' said the king; 'if you cannot get together some
cutting observations and stinging retorts suitable to the occasion you
are a person of very poor resource.'
</p>

<p>
"So the Librarian went into the woods and gathered a goodly selection
of highly argumentative rods and switches, and then proceeded to reason
with Vespaluus on the folly and iniquity and above all the unseemliness
of his conduct.  His reasoning left a deep impression on the young
prince, an impression which lasted for many weeks, during which time
nothing more was heard about the unfortunate lapse into Christianity.
Then a further scandal of the same nature agitated the Court.  At a
time when he should have been engaged in audibly invoking the gracious
protection and patronage of the holy serpents, Vespaluus was heard
singing a chant in honour of St. Odilo of Cluny.  The king was furious
at this new outbreak, and began to take a gloomy view of the situation;
Vespaluus was evidently going to show a dangerous obstinacy in
persisting in his heresy.  And yet there was nothing in his appearance
to justify such perverseness; he had not the pale eye of the fanatic or
the mystic look of the dreamer.  On the contrary, he was quite the
best-looking boy at Court; he had an elegant, well-knit figure, a
healthy complexion, eyes the colour of very ripe mulberries, and dark
hair, smooth and very well cared for."
</p>

<p>
"It sounds like a description of what you imagine yourself to have been
like at the age of sixteen," said the Baroness.
</p>

<p>
"My mother has probably been showing you some of my early photographs,"
said Clovis.  Having turned the sarcasm into a compliment, he resumed
his story.
</p>

<p>
"The king had Vespaluus shut up in a dark tower for three days, with
nothing but bread and water to live on, the squealing and fluttering of
bats to listen to, and drifting clouds to watch through one little
window slit.  The anti-Pagan section of the community began to talk
portentously of the boy-martyr.  The martyrdom was mitigated, as far as
the food was concerned, by the carelessness of the tower warden, who
once or twice left a portion of his own supper of broiled meat and
fruit and wine by mistake in the prince's cell.  After the punishment
was over, Vespaluus was closely watched for any further symptom of
religious perversity, for the king was determined to stand no more
opposition on so important a matter, even from a favourite nephew.  If
there was any more of this nonsense, he said, the succession to the
throne would have to be altered.
</p>

<p>
"For a time all went well; the festival of summer sports was
approaching, and the young Vespaluus was too engrossed in wrestling and
foot-running and javelin-throwing competitions to bother himself with
the strife of conflicting religious systems. Then, however, came the
great culminating feature of the summer festival, the ceremonial dance
round the grove of the sacred serpents, and Vespaluus, as we should
say, 'sat it out.'  The affront to the State religion was too public
and ostentatious to be overlooked, even if the king had been so minded,
and he was not in the least so minded.  For a day and a half he sat
apart and brooded, and every one thought he was debating within himself
the question of the young prince's death or pardon; as a matter of fact
he was merely thinking out the manner of the boy's death.  As the thing
had to be done, and was bound to attract an enormous amount of public
attention in any case, it was as well to make it as spectacular and
impressive as possible.
</p>

<p>
"'Apart from his unfortunate taste in religions;' said the king, 'and
his obstinacy in adhering to it, he is a sweet and pleasant youth,
therefore it is meet and fitting that he should be done to death by the
winged envoys of sweetness.'
</p>

<p>
"'Your Majesty means—?' said the Royal Librarian.
</p>

<p>
"'I mean,' said the king, 'that he shall be stung to death by bees.  By
the royal bees, of course.'
</p>

<p>
"'A most elegant death,' said the Librarian.
</p>

<p>
"'Elegant and spectacular, and decidedly painful,' said the king; 'it
fulfils all the conditions that could be wished for.'
</p>

<p>
"The king himself thought out all the details of the execution
ceremony.  Vespaluus was to be stripped of his clothes, his hands were
to be bound behind him, and he was then to be slung in a recumbent
position immediately above three of the largest of the royal beehives,
so that the least movement of his body would bring him in jarring
contact with them.  The rest could be safely left to the bees.  The
death throes, the king computed, might last anything from fifteen to
forty minutes, though there was division of opinion and considerable
wagering among the other nephews as to whether death might not be
almost instantaneous, or, on the other hand, whether it might not be
deferred for a couple of hours. Anyway, they all agreed, it was vastly
preferable to being thrown down into an evil smelling bear-pit and
being clawed and mauled to death by imperfectly carnivorous animals.
</p>

<p>
"It so happened, however, that the keeper of the royal hives had
leanings towards Christianity himself, and moreover, like most of the
Court officials, he was very much attached to Vespaluus.  On the eve of
the execution, therefore, he busied himself with removing the stings
from all the royal bees; it was a long and delicate operation, but he
was an expert bee-master, and by working hard nearly all night he
succeeded in disarming all, or almost all, of the hive inmates."
</p>

<p>
"I didn't know you could take the sting from a live bee," said the
Baroness incredulously.
</p>

<p>
"Every profession has its secrets," replied Clovis; "if it hadn't it
wouldn't be a profession.  Well, the moment for the execution arrived;
the king and Court took their places, and accommodation was found for
as many of the populace as wished to witness the unusual spectacle.
Fortunately the royal bee-yard was of considerable dimensions, and was
commanded, moreover, by the terraces that ran round the royal gardens;
with a little squeezing and the erection of a few platforms room was
found for everybody. Vespaluus was carried into the open space in front
of the hives, blushing and slightly embarrassed, but not at all
displeased at the attention which was being centred on him."
</p>

<p>
"He seems to have resembled you in more things than in appearance,"
said the Baroness.
</p>

<p>
"Don't interrupt at a critical point in the story," said Clovis. "As
soon as he had been carefully adjusted in the prescribed position over
the hives, and almost before the gaolers had time to retire to a safe
distance, Vespaluus gave a lusty and well-aimed kick, which sent all
three hives toppling one over another.  The next moment he was wrapped
from head to foot in bees; each individual insect nursed the dreadful
and humiliating knowledge that in this supreme hour of catastrophe it
could not sting, but each felt that it ought to pretend to.  Vespaluus
squealed and wriggled with laughter, for he was being tickled nearly to
death, and now and again he gave a furious kick and used a bad word as
one of the few bees that had escaped disarmament got its protest home.
But the spectators saw with amazement that he showed no signs of
approaching death agony, and as the bees dropped wearily away in
clusters from his body his flesh was seen to be as white and smooth as
before the ordeal, with a shiny glaze from the honey-smear of
innumerable bee-feet, and here and there a small red spot where one of
the rare stings had left its mark.  It was obvious that a miracle had
been performed in his favour, and one loud murmur, of astonishment or
exultation, rose from the onlooking crowd.  The king gave orders for
Vespaluus to be taken down to await further orders, and stalked
silently back to his midday meal, at which he was careful to eat
heartily and drink copiously as though nothing unusual had happened.
After dinner he sent for the Royal Librarian.
</p>

<p>
"'What is the meaning of this fiasco?' he demanded.
</p>

<p>
"'Your Majesty,' said that official, 'either there is something
radically wrong with the bees—'
</p>

<p>
"'There is nothing wrong with my bees,' said the king haughtily, 'they
are the best bees.'
</p>

<p>
"'Or else,' said the Librarian, 'there is something irremediably right
about Prince Vespaluus.'
</p>

<p>
"'If Vespaluus is right I must be wrong,' said the king.
</p>

<p>
"The Librarian was silent for a moment.  Hasty speech has been the
downfall of many; ill-considered silence was the undoing of the
luckless Court functionary.
</p>

<p>
"Forgetting the restraint due to his dignity, and the golden rule which
imposes repose of mind and body after a heavy meal, the king rushed
upon the keeper of the royal books and hit him repeatedly and
promiscuously over the head with an ivory chessboard, a pewter
wine-flagon, and a brass candlestick; he knocked him violently and
often against an iron torch sconce, and kicked him thrice round the
banqueting chamber with rapid, energetic kicks.  Finally, he dragged
him down a long passage by the hair of his head and flung him out of a
window into the courtyard below."
</p>

<p>
"Was he much hurt?" asked the Baroness.
</p>

<p>
"More hurt than surprised," said Clovis.  You see, the king was
notorious for his violent temper.  However, this was the first time he
had let himself go so unrestrainedly on the top of a heavy meal.  The
Librarian lingered for many days—in fact, for all I know, he may have
ultimately recovered, but Hkrikros died that same evening.  Vespaluus
had hardly finished getting the honey stains off his body before a
hurried deputation came to put the coronation oil on his head.  And
what with the publicly-witnessed miracle and the accession of a
Christian sovereign, it was not surprising that there was a general
scramble of converts to the new religion.  A hastily consecrated bishop
was overworked with a rush of baptisms in the hastily improvised
Cathedral of St. Odilo. And the boy-martyr-that-might-have-been was
transposed in the popular imagination into a royal boy-saint, whose
fame attracted throngs of curious and devout sightseers to the capital.
Vespaluus, who was busily engaged in organizing the games and athletic
contests that were to mark the commencement of his reign, had no time
to give heed to the religious fervour which was effervescing round his
personality; the first indication he had of the existing state of
affairs was when the Court Chamberlain (a recent and very ardent
addition to the Christian community) brought for his approval the
outlines of a projected ceremonial cutting-down of the idolatrous
serpent-grove.
</p>

<p>
"'Your Majesty will be graciously pleased to cut down the first tree
with a specially consecrated axe,' said the obsequious official.
</p>

<p>
"'I'll cut off your head first, with any axe that comes handy,' said
Vespaluus indignantly; 'do you suppose that I'm going to begin my reign
by mortally affronting the sacred serpents?  It would be most unlucky.'
</p>

<p>
"'But your Majesty's Christian principles?' exclaimed the bewildered
Chamberlain.
</p>

<p>
"'I never had any,' said Vespaluus; 'I used to pretend to be a
Christian convert just to annoy Hkrikros.  He used to fly into such
delicious tempers.  And it was rather fun being whipped and scolded and
shut up in a tower all for nothing.  But as to turning Christian in
real earnest, like you people seem to do, I couldn't think of such a
thing.  And the holy and esteemed serpents have always helped me when
I've prayed to them for success in my running and wrestling and
hunting, and it was through their distinguished intercession that the
bees were not able to hurt me with their stings.  It would be black
ingratitude, to turn against their worship at the very outset of my
reign.  I hate you for suggesting it.'
</p>

<p>
"The Chamberlain wrung his hands despairingly.
</p>

<p>
"'But, your Majesty,' he wailed, 'the people are reverencing you as a
saint, and the nobles are being Christianized in batches, and
neighbouring potentates of that Faith are sending special envoys to
welcome you as a brother.  There is some talk of making you the patron
saint of beehives, and a certain shade of honey-yellow has been
christened Vespaluusian gold at the Emperor's Court.  You can't surely
go back on all this.'
</p>

<p>
"'I don't mind being reverenced and greeted and honoured,' said
Vespaluus; 'I don't even mind being sainted in moderation, as long as
I'm not expected to be saintly as well.  But I wish you clearly and
finally to understand that I will NOT give up the worship of the august
and auspicious serpents.'
</p>

<p>
"There was a world of unspoken bear-pit in the way he uttered those
last words, and the mulberry-dark eyes flashed dangerously.
</p>

<p>
"'A new reign,' said the Chamberlain to himself, 'but the same old
temper.'
</p>

<p>
"Finally, as a State necessity, the matter of the religions was
compromised.  At stated intervals the king appeared before his subjects
in the national cathedral in the character of St. Vespaluus, and the
idolatrous grove was gradually pruned and lopped away till nothing
remained of it.  But the sacred and esteemed serpents were removed to a
private shrubbery in the royal gardens, where Vespaluus the Pagan and
certain members of his household devoutly and decently worshipped them.
That possibly is the reason why the boy-king's success in sports and
hunting never deserted him to the end of his days, and that is also the
reason why, in spite of the popular veneration for his sanctity, he
never received official canonization."
</p>

<p>
"It has stopped raining," said the Baroness.
</p>



		</article>
	</body>
</html>
