<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-US">
	<head>
		<title>the-image-of-the-lost-soul</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<article id="the-image-of-the-lost-soul" epub:type="se:short-story">
			<h2>THE
IMAGE OF THE LOST SOUL</h2>
<p>There were a number of carved stone figures placed at
intervals along the parapets of the old Cathedral; some of them
represented angels, others kings and bishops, and nearly all were
in attitudes of pious exaltation and composure. But one
figure, low down on the cold north side of the building, had
neither crown, mitre, not nimbus, and its face was hard and
bitter and downcast; it must be a demon, declared the fat blue
pigeons that roosted and sunned themselves all day on the ledges
of the parapet; but the old belfry jackdaw, who was an authority
on ecclesiastical architecture, said it was a lost soul.
And there the matter rested.</p>
<p>One autumn day there fluttered on to the Cathedral roof a
slender, sweet-voiced bird that had wandered away from the bare
fields and thinning hedgerows in search of a winter
roosting-place. It tried to rest its tired feet under the
shade of a great angel-wing or to nestle in the sculptured folds
of a kingly robe, but the fat pigeons hustled it away from
wherever it settled, and the noisy sparrow-folk drove it off the
ledges. No respectable bird sang with so much feeling, they
cheeped one to another, and the wanderer had to move on.</p>
<p>Only the effigy of the Lost Soul offered a place of
refuge. The pigeons did not consider it safe to perch on a
projection that leaned so much out of the perpendicular, and was,
besides, too much in the shadow. The figure did not cross
its hands in the pious attitude of the other graven dignitaries,
but its arms were folded as in defiance and their angle made a
snug resting-place for the little bird. Every evening it
crept trustfully into its corner against the stone breast of the
image, and the darkling eyes seemed to keep watch over its
slumbers. The lonely bird grew to love its lonely
protector, and during the day it would sit from time to time on
some rainshoot or other abutment and trill forth its sweetest
music in grateful thanks for its nightly shelter. And, it
may have been the work of wind and weather, or some other
influence, but the wild drawn face seemed gradually to lose some
of its hardness and unhappiness. Every day, through the
long monotonous hours, the song of his little guest would come up
in snatches to the lonely watcher, and at evening, when the
vesper-bell was ringing and the great grey bats slid out of their
hiding-places in the belfry roof, the bright-eyed bird would
return, twitter a few sleepy notes, and nestle into the arms that
were waiting for him. Those were happy days for the Dark
Image. Only the great bell of the Cathedral rang out daily
its mocking message, “After joy . . . sorrow.”</p>
<p>The folk in the verger’s lodge noticed a little brown
bird flitting about the Cathedral precincts, and admired its
beautiful singing. “But it is a pity,” said
they, “that all that warbling should be lost and wasted far
out of hearing up on the parapet.” They were poor,
but they understood the principles of political economy. So
they caught the bird and put it in a little wicker cage outside
the lodge door.</p>
<p>That night the little songster was missing from its accustomed
haunt, and the Dark Image knew more than ever the bitterness of
loneliness. Perhaps his little friend had been killed by a
prowling cat or hurt by a stone. Perhaps . . . perhaps he
had flown elsewhere. But when morning came there floated up
to him, through the noise and bustle of the Cathedral world, a
faint heart-aching message from the prisoner in the wicker cage
far below. And every day, at high noon, when the fat
pigeons were stupefied into silence after their midday meal and
the sparrows were washing themselves in the street-puddles, the
song of the little bird came up to the parapets—a song of
hunger and longing and hopelessness, a cry that could never be
answered. The pigeons remarked, between mealtimes, that the
figure leaned forward more than ever out of the
perpendicular.</p>
<p>One day no song came up from the little wicker cage. It
was the coldest day of the winter, and the pigeons and sparrows
on the Cathedral roof looked anxiously on all sides for the
scraps of food which they were dependent on in hard weather.</p>
<p>“Have the lodge-folk thrown out anything on to the
dust-heap?” inquired one pigeon of another which was
peering over the edge of the north parapet.</p>
<p>“Only a little dead bird,” was the answer.</p>
<p>There was a crackling sound in the night on the Cathedral roof
and a noise as of falling masonry. The belfry jackdaw said
the frost was affecting the fabric, and as he had experienced
many frosts it must have been so. In the morning it was
seen that the Figure of the Lost Soul had toppled from its
cornice and lay now in a broken mass on the dust-heap outside the
verger’s lodge.</p>
<p>“It is just as well,” cooed the fat pigeons, after
they had peered at the matter for some minutes; “now we
shall have a nice angel put up there. Certainly they will
put an angel there.”</p>
<p>“After joy . . . sorrow,” rang out the great
bell.</p>

		</article>
	</body>
</html>
