<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-US">
	<head>
		<title>the-she-wolf</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<article id="the-she-wolf" epub:type="se:short-story">
			
<h2>The She-Wolf</h2>
<p>Leonard Bilsiter was one of those people who have failed to
find this world attractive or interesting, and who have sought
compensation in an “unseen world” of their own
experience or imagination—or invention. Children do
that sort of thing successfully, but children are content to
convince themselves, and do not vulgarise their beliefs by trying
to convince other people. Leonard Bilsiter’s beliefs
were for “the few,” that is to say, anyone who would
listen to him.</p>
<p>His dabblings in the unseen might not have carried him beyond
the customary platitudes of the drawing-room visionary if
accident had not reinforced his stock-in-trade of mystical
lore. In company with a friend, who was interested in a
Ural mining concern, he had made a trip across Eastern Europe at
a moment when the great Russian railway strike was developing
from a threat to a reality; its outbreak caught him on the return
journey, somewhere on the further side of Perm, and it was while
waiting for a couple of days at a wayside station in a state of
suspended locomotion that he made the acquaintance of a dealer in
harness and metalware, who profitably whiled away the tedium of
the long halt by initiating his English travelling companion in a
fragmentary system of folk-lore that he had picked up from
Trans-Baikal traders and natives. Leonard returned to his
home circle garrulous about his Russian strike experiences, but
oppressively reticent about certain dark mysteries, which he
alluded to under the resounding title of Siberian Magic.
The reticence wore off in a week or two under the influence of an
entire lack of general curiosity, and Leonard began to make more
detailed allusions to the enormous powers which this new esoteric
force, to use his own description of it, conferred on the
initiated few who knew how to wield it. His aunt, Cecilia
Hoops, who loved sensation perhaps rather better than she loved
the truth, gave him as clamorous an advertisement as anyone could
wish for by retailing an account of how he had turned a vegetable
marrow into a wood pigeon before her very eyes. As a
manifestation of the possession of supernatural powers, the story
was discounted in some quarters by the respect accorded to Mrs.
Hoops’ powers of imagination.</p>
<p>However divided opinion might be on the question of
Leonard’s status as a wonderworker or a charlatan, he
certainly arrived at Mary Hampton’s house-party with a
reputation for pre-eminence in one or other of those professions,
and he was not disposed to shun such publicity as might fall to
his share. Esoteric forces and unusual powers figured
largely in whatever conversation he or his aunt had a share in,
and his own performances, past and potential, were the subject of
mysterious hints and dark avowals.</p>
<p>“I wish you would turn me into a wolf, Mr.
Bilsiter,” said his hostess at luncheon the day after his
arrival.</p>
<p>“My dear Mary,” said Colonel Hampton, “I
never knew you had a craving in that direction.”</p>
<p>“A she-wolf, of course,” continued Mrs. Hampton;
“it would be too confusing to change one’s sex as
well as one’s species at a moment’s
notice.”</p>
<p>“I don’t think one should jest on these
subjects,” said Leonard.</p>
<p>“I’m not jesting, I’m quite serious, I
assure you. Only don’t do it to-day; we have only
eight available bridge players, and it would break up one of our
tables. To-morrow we shall be a larger party.
To-morrow night, after dinner—”</p>
<p>“In our present imperfect understanding of these hidden
forces I think one should approach them with humbleness rather
than mockery,” observed Leonard, with such severity that
the subject was forthwith dropped.</p>
<p>Clovis Sangrail had sat unusually silent during the discussion
on the possibilities of Siberian Magic; after lunch he
side-tracked Lord Pabham into the comparative seclusion of the
billiard-room and delivered himself of a searching question.</p>
<p>“Have you such a thing as a she-wolf in your collection
of wild animals? A she-wolf of moderately good
temper?”</p>
<p>Lord Pabham considered. “There is Louisa,”
he said, “a rather fine specimen of the timber-wolf.
I got her two years ago in exchange for some Arctic foxes.
Most of my animals get to be fairly tame before they’ve
been with me very long; I think I can say Louisa has an angelic
temper, as she-wolves go. Why do you ask?”</p>
<p>“I was wondering whether you would lend her to me for
to-morrow night,” said Clovis, with the careless solicitude
of one who borrows a collar stud or a tennis racquet.</p>
<p>“To-morrow night?”</p>
<p>“Yes, wolves are nocturnal animals, so the late hours
won’t hurt her,” said Clovis, with the air of one who
has taken everything into consideration; “one of your men
could bring her over from Pabham Park after dusk, and with a
little help he ought to be able to smuggle her into the
conservatory at the same moment that Mary Hampton makes an
unobtrusive exit.”</p>
<p>Lord Pabham stared at Clovis for a moment in pardonable
bewilderment; then his face broke into a wrinkled network of
laughter.</p>
<p>“Oh, that’s your game, is it? You are going
to do a little Siberian Magic on your own account. And is
Mrs. Hampton willing to be a fellow-conspirator?”</p>
<p>“Mary is pledged to see me through with it, if you will
guarantee Louisa’s temper.”</p>
<p>“I’ll answer for Louisa,” said Lord
Pabham.</p>
<p>By the following day the house-party had swollen to larger
proportions, and Bilsiter’s instinct for self-advertisement
expanded duly under the stimulant of an increased audience.
At dinner that evening he held forth at length on the subject of
unseen forces and untested powers, and his flow of impressive
eloquence continued unabated while coffee was being served in the
drawing-room preparatory to a general migration to the
card-room.</p>
<p>His aunt ensured a respectful hearing for his utterances, but
her sensation-loving soul hankered after something more dramatic
than mere vocal demonstration.</p>
<p>“Won’t you do something to <i>convince</i> them of
your powers, Leonard?” she pleaded; “change something
into another shape. He can, you know, if he only chooses
to,” she informed the company.</p>
<p>“Oh, do,” said Mavis Pellington earnestly, and her
request was echoed by nearly everyone present. Even those
who were not open to conviction were perfectly willing to be
entertained by an exhibition of amateur conjuring.</p>
<p>Leonard felt that something tangible was expected of him.</p>
<p>“Has anyone present,” he asked, “got a
three-penny bit or some small object of no particular
value—?”</p>
<p>“You’re surely not going to make coins disappear,
or something primitive of that sort?” said Clovis
contemptuously.</p>
<p>“I think it very unkind of you not to carry out my
suggestion of turning me into a wolf,” said Mary Hampton,
as she crossed over to the conservatory to give her macaws their
usual tribute from the dessert dishes.</p>
<p>“I have already warned you of the danger of treating
these powers in a mocking spirit,” said Leonard
solemnly.</p>
<p>“I don’t believe you can do it,” laughed
Mary provocatively from the conservatory; “I dare you to do
it if you can. I defy you to turn me into a
wolf.”</p>
<p>As she said this she was lost to view behind a clump of
azaleas.</p>
<p>“Mrs. Hampton—” began Leonard with increased
solemnity, but he got no further. A breath of chill air
seemed to rush across the room, and at the same time the macaws
broke forth into ear-splitting screams.</p>
<p>“What on earth is the matter with those confounded
birds, Mary?” exclaimed Colonel Hampton; at the same moment
an even more piercing scream from Mavis Pellington stampeded the
entire company from their seats. In various attitudes of
helpless horror or instinctive defence they confronted the
evil-looking grey beast that was peering at them from amid a
setting of fern and azalea.</p>
<p>Mrs. Hoops was the first to recover from the general chaos of
fright and bewilderment.</p>
<p>“Leonard!” she screamed shrilly to her nephew,
“turn it back into Mrs. Hampton at once! It may fly
at us at any moment. Turn it back!”</p>
<p>“I—I don’t know how to,” faltered
Leonard, who looked more scared and horrified than anyone.</p>
<p>“What!” shouted Colonel Hampton,
“you’ve taken the abominable liberty of turning my
wife into a wolf, and now you stand there calmly and say you
can’t turn her back again!”</p>
<p>To do strict justice to Leonard, calmness was not a
distinguishing feature of his attitude at the moment.</p>
<p>“I assure you I didn’t turn Mrs. Hampton into a
wolf; nothing was farther from my intentions,” he
protested.</p>
<p>“Then where is she, and how came that animal into the
conservatory?” demanded the Colonel.</p>
<p>“Of course we must accept your assurance that you
didn’t turn Mrs. Hampton into a wolf,” said Clovis
politely, “but you will agree that appearances are against
you.”</p>
<p>“Are we to have all these recriminations with that beast
standing there ready to tear us to pieces?” wailed Mavis
indignantly.</p>
<p>“Lord Pabham, you know a good deal about wild
beasts—” suggested Colonel Hampton.</p>
<p>“The wild beasts that I have been accustomed to,”
said Lord Pabham, “have come with proper credentials from
well-known dealers, or have been bred in my own menagerie.
I’ve never before been confronted with an animal that walks
unconcernedly out of an azalea bush, leaving a charming and
popular hostess unaccounted for. As far as one can judge
from <i>outward</i> characteristics,” he continued,
“it has the appearance of a well-grown female of the North
American timber-wolf, a variety of the common species <i>canis
lupus</i>.”</p>
<p>“Oh, never mind its Latin name,” screamed Mavis,
as the beast came a step or two further into the room;
“can’t you entice it away with food, and shut it up
where it can’t do any harm?”</p>
<p>“If it is really Mrs. Hampton, who has just had a very
good dinner, I don’t suppose food will appeal to it very
strongly,” said Clovis.</p>
<p>“Leonard,” beseeched Mrs. Hoops tearfully,
“even if this is none of your doing can’t you use
your great powers to turn this dreadful beast into something
harmless before it bites us all—a rabbit or
something?”</p>
<p>“I don’t suppose Colonel Hampton would care to
have his wife turned into a succession of fancy animals as though
we were playing a round game with her,” interposed
Clovis.</p>
<p>“I absolutely forbid it,” thundered the
Colonel.</p>
<p>“Most wolves that I’ve had anything to do with
have been inordinately fond of sugar,” said Lord Pabham;
“if you like I’ll try the effect on this
one.”</p>
<p>He took a piece of sugar from the saucer of his coffee cup and
flung it to the expectant Louisa, who snapped it in
mid-air. There was a sigh of relief from the company; a
wolf that ate sugar when it might at the least have been employed
in tearing macaws to pieces had already shed some of its
terrors. The sigh deepened to a gasp of thanks-giving when
Lord Pabham decoyed the animal out of the room by a pretended
largesse of further sugar. There was an instant rush to the
vacated conservatory. There was no trace of Mrs. Hampton
except the plate containing the macaws’ supper.</p>
<p>“The door is locked on the inside!” exclaimed
Clovis, who had deftly turned the key as he affected to test
it.</p>
<p>Everyone turned towards Bilsiter.</p>
<p>“If you haven’t turned my wife into a wolf,”
said Colonel Hampton, “will you kindly explain where she
has disappeared to, since she obviously could not have gone
through a locked door? I will not press you for an
explanation of how a North American timber-wolf suddenly appeared
in the conservatory, but I think I have some right to inquire
what has become of Mrs. Hampton.”</p>
<p>Bilsiter’s reiterated disclaimer was met with a general
murmur of impatient disbelief.</p>
<p>“I refuse to stay another hour under this roof,”
declared Mavis Pellington.</p>
<p>“If our hostess has really vanished out of human
form,” said Mrs. Hoops, “none of the ladies of the
party can very well remain. I absolutely decline to be
chaperoned by a wolf!”</p>
<p>“It’s a she-wolf,” said Clovis
soothingly.</p>
<p>The correct etiquette to be observed under the unusual
circumstances received no further elucidation. The sudden
entry of Mary Hampton deprived the discussion of its immediate
interest.</p>
<p>“Some one has mesmerised me,” she exclaimed
crossly; “I found myself in the game larder, of all places,
being fed with sugar by Lord Pabham. I hate being
mesmerised, and the doctor has forbidden me to touch
sugar.”</p>
<p>The situation was explained to her, as far as it permitted of
anything that could be called explanation.</p>
<p>“Then you <i>really</i> did turn me into a wolf, Mr.
Bilsiter?” she exclaimed excitedly.</p>
<p>But Leonard had burned the boat in which he might now have
embarked on a sea of glory. He could only shake his head
feebly.</p>
<p>“It was I who took that liberty,” said Clovis;
“you see, I happen to have lived for a couple of years in
North-Eastern Russia, and I have more than a tourist’s
acquaintance with the magic craft of that region. One does
not care to speak about these strange powers, but once in a way,
when one hears a lot of nonsense being talked about them, one is
tempted to show what Siberian magic can accomplish in the hands
of someone who really understands it. I yielded to that
temptation. May I have some brandy? the effort has left me
rather faint.”</p>
<p>If Leonard Bilsiter could at that moment have transformed
Clovis into a cockroach and then have stepped on him he would
gladly have performed both operations.</p>

		</article>
	</body>
</html>
