<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-GB">
	<head>
		<title>The Baker’s Dozen</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<article id="the-bakers-dozen" epub:type="se:short-story">
			<h2 epub:type="title">The Baker’s Dozen</h2>
			<section id="the-bakers-dozen-1" epub:type="z3998:dramatis-personae">
				<header>
					<p>Characters</p>
				</header>
				<ul>
					<li>
						<p>Major Richard Dumbarton.</p>
					</li>
					<li>
						<p><abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr> Carewe.</p>
					</li>
					<li>
						<p><abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr> Paly-Paget.</p>
					</li>
				</ul>
			</section>
			<section id="the-bakers-dozen-2" epub:type="z3998:drama z3998:scene">
				<p>Scene⁠—Deck of eastward-bound steamer. <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Major Dumbarton</b> seated on deck-chair, another chair by his side, with the name “<abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr> Carewe” painted on it, a third near by.</p>
				<table>
					<tbody>
						<tr>
							<td/>
							<td>
								<i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Enter <abbr epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">R.</abbr> <b epub:type="z3998:persona"><abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr> Carewe</b>, seats herself leisurely in her deck-chair, the <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Major</b> affecting to ignore her presence.</i>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Major</td>
							<td><i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Turning suddenly.</i> Emily! After all these years! This is fate!</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">
								<abbr epub:type="z3998:given-name">Em.</abbr>
							</td>
							<td>Fate! Nothing of the sort; it’s only me. You men are always such fatalists. I deferred my departure three whole weeks, in order to come out in the same boat that I saw you were travelling by. I bribed the steward to put out chairs side by side in an unfrequented corner, and I took enormous pains to be looking particularly attractive this morning, and then you say “This is fate.” I am looking particularly attractive, am I not?</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">
								<abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Maj.</abbr>
							</td>
							<td>More than ever. Time has only added a ripeness to your charms.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">
								<abbr epub:type="z3998:given-name">Em.</abbr>
							</td>
							<td>I knew you’d put it exactly in those words. The phraseology of lovemaking is awfully limited, isn’t it? After all, the chief charm is in the fact of being made love to. You <em>are</em> making love to me, aren’t you?</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">
								<abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Maj.</abbr>
							</td>
							<td>Emily dearest, I had already begun making advances, even before you sat down here. I also bribed the steward to put our seats together in a secluded corner. “You may consider it done, sir,” was his reply. That was immediately after breakfast.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">
								<abbr epub:type="z3998:given-name">Em.</abbr>
							</td>
							<td>How like a man to have his breakfast first. I attended to the seat business as soon as I left my cabin.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">
								<abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Maj.</abbr>
							</td>
							<td>Don’t be unreasonable. It was only at breakfast that I discovered your blessed presence on the boat. I paid violent and unusual attention to a flapper all through the meal in order to make you jealous. She’s probably in her cabin writing reams about me to a fellow-flapper at this very moment.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">
								<abbr epub:type="z3998:given-name">Em.</abbr>
							</td>
							<td>You needn’t have taken all that trouble to make me jealous, Dickie. You did that years ago, when you married another woman.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">
								<abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Maj.</abbr>
							</td>
							<td>Well, you had gone and married another man⁠—a widower, too, at that.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">
								<abbr epub:type="z3998:given-name">Em.</abbr>
							</td>
							<td>Well, there’s no particular harm in marrying a widower, I suppose. I’m ready to do it again, if I meet a really nice one.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">
								<abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Maj.</abbr>
							</td>
							<td>Look here, Emily, it’s not fair to go at that rate. You’re a lap ahead of me the whole time. It’s my place to propose to you; all you’ve got to do is to say “Yes.”</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">
								<abbr epub:type="z3998:given-name">Em.</abbr>
							</td>
							<td>Well, I’ve practically said it already, so we needn’t dawdle over that part.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">
								<abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Maj.</abbr>
							</td>
							<td>Oh, well⁠—</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td/>
							<td>
								<i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">They look at each other, then suddenly embrace with considerable energy.</i>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">
								<abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Maj.</abbr>
							</td>
							<td>We dead-heated it that time. <i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Suddenly jumping to his feet.</i> Oh, d⁠⸺ I’d forgotten!</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">
								<abbr epub:type="z3998:given-name">Em.</abbr>
							</td>
							<td>Forgotten what?</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">
								<abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Maj.</abbr>
							</td>
							<td>The children. I ought to have told you. Do you mind children?</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">
								<abbr epub:type="z3998:given-name">Em.</abbr>
							</td>
							<td>Not in moderate quantities. How many have you got?</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">
								<abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Maj.</abbr>
							</td>
							<td><i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Counting hurriedly on his fingers.</i> Five.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">
								<abbr epub:type="z3998:given-name">Em.</abbr>
							</td>
							<td>Five!</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">
								<abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Maj.</abbr>
							</td>
							<td><i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Anxiously.</i> Is that too many?</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">
								<abbr epub:type="z3998:given-name">Em.</abbr>
							</td>
							<td>It’s rather a number. The worst of it is, I’ve some myself.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">
								<abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Maj.</abbr>
							</td>
							<td>Many?</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">
								<abbr epub:type="z3998:given-name">Em.</abbr>
							</td>
							<td>Eight.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">
								<abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Maj.</abbr>
							</td>
							<td>Eight in six years! Oh, Emily!</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">
								<abbr epub:type="z3998:given-name">Em.</abbr>
							</td>
							<td>Only four were my own. The other four were by my husband’s first marriage. Still, that practically makes eight.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">
								<abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Maj.</abbr>
							</td>
							<td>And eight and five make thirteen. We can’t start our married life with thirteen children; it would be most unlucky. <i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Walks up and down in agitation.</i> Some way must be found out of this. If we could only bring them down to twelve. Thirteen is so horribly unlucky.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">
								<abbr epub:type="z3998:given-name">Em.</abbr>
							</td>
							<td>Isn’t there some way by which we could part with one or two? Don’t the French want more children? I’ve often seen articles about it in the <i epub:type="se:name.music.opera">Figaro</i>.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">
								<abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Maj.</abbr>
							</td>
							<td>I fancy they want French children. Mine don’t even speak French.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">
								<abbr epub:type="z3998:given-name">Em.</abbr>
							</td>
							<td>There’s always a chance that one of them might turn out depraved and vicious, and then you could disown him. I’ve heard of that being done.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">
								<abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Maj.</abbr>
							</td>
							<td>But, good gracious, you’ve got to educate him first. You can’t expect a boy to be vicious till he’s been to a good school.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">
								<abbr epub:type="z3998:given-name">Em.</abbr>
							</td>
							<td>Why couldn’t he be naturally depraved? Lots of boys are.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">
								<abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Maj.</abbr>
							</td>
							<td>Only when they inherit it from depraved parents. You don’t suppose there’s any depravity in me, do you?</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">
								<abbr epub:type="z3998:given-name">Em.</abbr>
							</td>
							<td>It sometimes skips a generation, you know. Weren’t any of your family bad?</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">
								<abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Maj.</abbr>
							</td>
							<td>There was an aunt who was never spoken of.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">
								<abbr epub:type="z3998:given-name">Em.</abbr>
							</td>
							<td>There you are!</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">
								<abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Maj.</abbr>
							</td>
							<td>But one can’t build too much on that. In mid-Victorian days they labelled all sorts of things as unspeakable that we should speak about quite tolerantly. I dare say this particular aunt had only married a Unitarian, or rode to hounds on both sides of her horse, or something of that sort. Anyhow, we can’t wait indefinitely for one of the children to take after a doubtfully depraved great-aunt. Something else must be thought of.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">
								<abbr epub:type="z3998:given-name">Em.</abbr>
							</td>
							<td>Don’t people ever adopt children from other families?</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">
								<abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Maj.</abbr>
							</td>
							<td>I’ve heard of it being done by childless couples, and those sort of people⁠—</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">
								<abbr epub:type="z3998:given-name">Em.</abbr>
							</td>
							<td>Hush! Someone’s coming. Who is it?</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">
								<abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Maj.</abbr>
							</td>
							<td><abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr> Paly-Paget.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">
								<abbr epub:type="z3998:given-name">Em.</abbr>
							</td>
							<td>The very person!</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">
								<abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Maj.</abbr>
							</td>
							<td>What, to adopt a child? Hasn’t she got any?</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">
								<abbr epub:type="z3998:given-name">Em.</abbr>
							</td>
							<td>Only one miserable hen-baby.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">
								<abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Maj.</abbr>
							</td>
							<td>Let’s sound her on the subject.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td/>
							<td>
								<i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Enter <b epub:type="z3998:persona"><abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr> Paly-Paget</b>, <abbr class="eoc" epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">R.</abbr></i>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td/>
							<td>Ah, good morning. <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr> Paly-Paget. I was just wondering at breakfast where did we meet last?</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona"><abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr> <abbr epub:type="z3998:surname">P.-P.</abbr></td>
							<td>At the Criterion, wasn’t it? <i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Drops into vacant chair.</i></td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">
								<abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Maj.</abbr>
							</td>
							<td>At the Criterion, of course.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona"><abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr> <abbr epub:type="z3998:surname">P.-P.</abbr></td>
							<td>I was dining with Lord and Lady Slugford. Charming people, but so mean. They took us afterwards to the Velodrome, to see some dancer interpreting Mendelssohn’s “song without clothes.” We were all packed up in a little box near the roof, and you may imagine how hot it was. It was like a Turkish bath. And, of course, one couldn’t see anything.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">
								<abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Maj.</abbr>
							</td>
							<td>Then it was not like a Turkish bath.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona"><abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr> <abbr epub:type="z3998:surname">P.-P.</abbr></td>
							<td>Major!</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">
								<abbr epub:type="z3998:given-name">Em.</abbr>
							</td>
							<td>We were just talking of you when you joined us.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona"><abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr> <abbr epub:type="z3998:surname">P.-P.</abbr></td>
							<td>Really! Nothing very dreadful, I hope.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">
								<abbr epub:type="z3998:given-name">Em.</abbr>
							</td>
							<td>Oh dear, no! It’s too early on the voyage for that sort of thing. We were feeling rather sorry for you.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona"><abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr> <abbr epub:type="z3998:surname">P.-P.</abbr></td>
							<td>Sorry for me? Whatever for?</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">
								<abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Maj.</abbr>
							</td>
							<td>Your childless hearth and all that, you know. No little pattering feet.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona"><abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr> <abbr epub:type="z3998:surname">P.-P.</abbr></td>
							<td>Major! How dare you? I’ve got my little girl, I suppose you know. Her feet can patter as well as other children’s.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">
								<abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Maj.</abbr>
							</td>
							<td>Only one pair of feet.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona"><abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr> <abbr epub:type="z3998:surname">P.-P.</abbr></td>
							<td>Certainly. My child isn’t a centipede. Considering the way they move us about in those horrid jungle stations, without a decent bungalow to set one’s foot in, I consider I’ve got a hearthless child, rather than a childless hearth. Thank you for your sympathy all the same. I dare say it was well meant. Impertinence often is.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">
								<abbr epub:type="z3998:given-name">Em.</abbr>
							</td>
							<td>Dear <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr> Paly-Paget, we were only feeling sorry for your sweet little girl when she grows older, you know. No little brothers and sisters to play with.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona"><abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr> <abbr epub:type="z3998:surname">P.-P.</abbr></td>
							<td><abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr> Carewe, this conversation strikes me as being indelicate, to say the least of it. I’ve only been married two and a half years, and my family is naturally a small one.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">
								<abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Maj.</abbr>
							</td>
							<td>Isn’t it rather an exaggeration to talk of one little female child as a family? A family suggests numbers.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona"><abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr> <abbr epub:type="z3998:surname">P.-P.</abbr></td>
							<td>Really, Major, you language is extraordinary. I dare say I’ve only got a little female child, as you call it, at present⁠—</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">
								<abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Maj.</abbr>
							</td>
							<td>Oh, it won’t change into a boy later on, if that’s what you’re counting on. Take our word for it; we’ve had so much more experience in these affairs than you have. Once a female, always a female. Nature is not infallible, but she always abides by her mistakes.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona"><abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr> <abbr epub:type="z3998:surname">P.-P.</abbr></td>
							<td><i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Rising.</i> Major Dumbarton, these boats are uncomfortably small, but I trust we shall find ample accommodation for avoiding each other’s society during the rest of the voyage. The same wish applies to you, <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr> Carewe.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td/>
							<td>
								<i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Exit <b epub:type="z3998:persona"><abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr> Paly-Paget</b>, <abbr class="eoc" epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">L.</abbr></i>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">
								<abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Maj.</abbr>
							</td>
							<td>What an unnatural mother! <i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Sinks into chair.</i></td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">
								<abbr epub:type="z3998:given-name">Em.</abbr>
							</td>
							<td>I wouldn’t trust a child with anyone who had a temper like hers. Oh, Dickie, why did you go and have such a large family? You always said you wanted me to be the mother of your children.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">
								<abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Maj.</abbr>
							</td>
							<td>I wasn’t going to wait while you were founding and fostering dynasties in other directions. Why you couldn’t be content to have children of your own, without collecting them like batches of postage stamps I can’t think. The idea of marrying a man with four children!</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">
								<abbr epub:type="z3998:given-name">Em.</abbr>
							</td>
							<td>Well, you’re asking me to marry one with five.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">
								<abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Maj.</abbr>
							</td>
							<td>Five! <i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Springing to his feet.</i> Did I say five?</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">
								<abbr epub:type="z3998:given-name">Em.</abbr>
							</td>
							<td>You certainly said five.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">
								<abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Maj.</abbr>
							</td>
							<td>Oh, Emily, supposing I’ve miscounted them! Listen now, keep count with me. Richard⁠—that’s after me, of course.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">
								<abbr epub:type="z3998:given-name">Em.</abbr>
							</td>
							<td>One.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">
								<abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Maj.</abbr>
							</td>
							<td>Albert-Victor⁠—that must have been in Coronation year.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">
								<abbr epub:type="z3998:given-name">Em.</abbr>
							</td>
							<td>Two!</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">
								<abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Maj.</abbr>
							</td>
							<td>Maud. She’s called after⁠—</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">
								<abbr epub:type="z3998:given-name">Em.</abbr>
							</td>
							<td>Never mind who’s she’s called after. Three!</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">
								<abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Maj.</abbr>
							</td>
							<td>And Gerald.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">
								<abbr epub:type="z3998:given-name">Em.</abbr>
							</td>
							<td>Four!</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">
								<abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Maj.</abbr>
							</td>
							<td>That’s the lot.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">
								<abbr epub:type="z3998:given-name">Em.</abbr>
							</td>
							<td>Are you sure?</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">
								<abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Maj.</abbr>
							</td>
							<td>I swear that’s the lot. I must have counted Albert-Victor as two.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">
								<abbr epub:type="z3998:given-name">Em.</abbr>
							</td>
							<td>Richard!</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">
								<abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Maj.</abbr>
							</td>
							<td>Emily!</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td/>
							<td>
								<i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">They embrace.</i>
							</td>
						</tr>
					</tbody>
				</table>
			</section>
		</article>
	</body>
</html>
