<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-US">
	<head>
		<title>the-cobweb</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<article id="the-cobweb" epub:type="se:short-story">
			<h2>The Cobweb</h2>
<p>The farmhouse kitchen probably stood where it did as a matter
of accident or haphazard choice; yet its situation might have
been planned by a master-strategist in farmhouse
architecture. Dairy and poultry-yard, and herb garden, and
all the busy places of the farm seemed to lead by easy access
into its wide flagged haven, where there was room for everything
and where muddy boots left traces that were easily swept
away. And yet, for all that it stood so well in the centre
of human bustle, its long, latticed window, with the wide
window-seat, built into an embrasure beyond the huge fireplace,
looked out on a wild spreading view of hill and heather and
wooded combe. The window nook made almost a little room in
itself, quite the pleasantest room in the farm as far as
situation and capabilities went. Young Mrs. Ladbruk, whose
husband had just come into the farm by way of inheritance, cast
covetous eyes on this snug corner, and her fingers itched to make
it bright and cosy with chintz curtains and bowls of flowers, and
a shelf or two of old china. The musty farm parlour,
looking out on to a prim, cheerless garden imprisoned within
high, blank walls, was not a room that lent itself readily either
to comfort or decoration.</p>
<p>“When we are more settled I shall work wonders in the
way of making the kitchen habitable,” said the young woman
to her occasional visitors. There was an unspoken wish in
those words, a wish which was unconfessed as well as
unspoken. Emma Ladbruk was the mistress of the farm;
jointly with her husband she might have her say, and to a certain
extent her way, in ordering its affairs. But she was not
mistress of the kitchen.</p>
<p>On one of the shelves of an old dresser, in company with
chipped sauce-boats, pewter jugs, cheese-graters, and paid bills,
rested a worn and ragged Bible, on whose front page was the
record, in faded ink, of a baptism dated ninety-four years
ago. “Martha Crale” was the name written on
that yellow page. The yellow, wrinkled old dame who hobbled
and muttered about the kitchen, looking like a dead autumn leaf
which the winter winds still pushed hither and thither, had once
been Martha Crale; for seventy odd years she had been Martha
Mountjoy. For longer than anyone could remember she had
pattered to and fro between oven and wash-house and dairy, and
out to chicken-run and garden, grumbling and muttering and
scolding, but working unceasingly. Emma Ladbruk, of whose
coming she took as little notice as she would of a bee wandering
in at a window on a summer’s day, used at first to watch
her with a kind of frightened curiosity. She was so old and
so much a part of the place, it was difficult to think of her
exactly as a living thing. Old Shep, the white-nozzled,
stiff-limbed collie, waiting for his time to die, seemed almost
more human than the withered, dried-up old woman. He had
been a riotous, roystering puppy, mad with the joy of life, when
she was already a tottering, hobbling dame; now he was just a
blind, breathing carcase, nothing more, and she still worked with
frail energy, still swept and baked and washed, fetched and
carried. If there were something in these wise old dogs
that did not perish utterly with death, Emma used to think to
herself, what generations of ghost-dogs there must be out on
those hills, that Martha had reared and fed and tended and spoken
a last good-bye word to in that old kitchen. And what
memories she must have of human generations that had passed away
in her time. It was difficult for anyone, let alone a
stranger like Emma, to get her to talk of the days that had been;
her shrill, quavering speech was of doors that had been left
unfastened, pails that had got mislaid, calves whose feeding-time
was overdue, and the various little faults and lapses that
chequer a farmhouse routine. Now and again, when election
time came round, she would unstore her recollections of the old
names round which the fight had waged in the days gone by.
There had been a Palmerston, that had been a name down Tiverton
way; Tiverton was not a far journey as the crow flies, but to
Martha it was almost a foreign country. Later there had
been Northcotes and Aclands, and many other newer names that she
had forgotten; the names changed, but it was always Libruls and
Toories, Yellows and Blues. And they always quarrelled and
shouted as to who was right and who was wrong. The one they
quarrelled about most was a fine old gentleman with an angry
face—she had seen his picture on the walls. She had
seen it on the floor too, with a rotten apple squashed over it,
for the farm had changed its politics from time to time.
Martha had never been on one side or the other; none of
“they” had ever done the farm a stroke of good.
Such was her sweeping verdict, given with all a peasant’s
distrust of the outside world.</p>
<p>When the half-frightened curiosity had somewhat faded away,
Emma Ladbruk was uncomfortably conscious of another feeling
towards the old woman. She was a quaint old tradition,
lingering about the place, she was part and parcel of the farm
itself, she was something at once pathetic and
picturesque—but she was dreadfully in the way. Emma
had come to the farm full of plans for little reforms and
improvements, in part the result of training in the newest ways
and methods, in part the outcome of her own ideas and
fancies. Reforms in the kitchen region, if those deaf old
ears could have been induced to give them even a hearing, would
have met with short shrift and scornful rejection, and the
kitchen region spread over the zone of dairy and market business
and half the work of the household. Emma, with the latest
science of dead-poultry dressing at her finger-tips, sat by, an
unheeded watcher, while old Martha trussed the chickens for the
market-stall as she had trussed them for nearly fourscore
years—all leg and no breast. And the hundred hints
anent effective cleaning and labour-lightening and the things
that make for wholesomeness which the young woman was ready to
impart or to put into action dropped away into nothingness before
that wan, muttering, unheeding presence. Above all, the
coveted window corner, that was to be a dainty, cheerful oasis in
the gaunt old kitchen, stood now choked and lumbered with a
litter of odds and ends that Emma, for all her nominal authority,
would not have dared or cared to displace; over them seemed to be
spun the protection of something that was like a human
cobweb. Decidedly Martha was in the way. It would
have been an unworthy meanness to have wished to see the span of
that brave old life shortened by a few paltry months, but as the
days sped by Emma was conscious that the wish was there, disowned
though it might be, lurking at the back of her mind.</p>
<p>She felt the meanness of the wish come over her with a qualm
of self-reproach one day when she came into the kitchen and found
an unaccustomed state of things in that usually busy
quarter. Old Martha was not working. A basket of corn
was on the floor by her side, and out in the yard the poultry
were beginning to clamour a protest of overdue
feeding-time. But Martha sat huddled in a shrunken bunch on
the window seat, looking out with her dim old eyes as though she
saw something stranger than the autumn landscape.</p>
<p>“Is anything the matter, Martha?” asked the young
woman.</p>
<p>“’Tis death, ’tis death a-coming,”
answered the quavering voice; “I knew ’twere
coming. I knew it. ’Tweren’t for nothing
that old Shep’s been howling all morning. An’
last night I heard the screech-owl give the death-cry, and there
were something white as run across the yard yesterday;
’tweren’t a cat nor a stoat, ’twere
something. The fowls knew ’twere something; they all
drew off to one side. Ay, there’s been
warnings. I knew it were a-coming.”</p>
<p>The young woman’s eyes clouded with pity. The old
thing sitting there so white and shrunken had once been a merry,
noisy child, playing about in lanes and hay-lofts and farmhouse
garrets; that had been eighty odd years ago, and now she was just
a frail old body cowering under the approaching chill of the
death that was coming at last to take her. It was not
probable that much could be done for her, but Emma hastened away
to get assistance and counsel. Her husband, she knew, was
down at a tree-felling some little distance off, but she might
find some other intelligent soul who knew the old woman better
than she did. The farm, she soon found out, had that
faculty common to farmyards of swallowing up and losing its human
population. The poultry followed her in interested fashion,
and swine grunted interrogations at her from behind the bars of
their styes, but barnyard and rickyard, orchard and stables and
dairy, gave no reward to her search. Then, as she retraced
her steps towards the kitchen, she came suddenly on her cousin,
young Mr. Jim, as every one called him, who divided his time
between amateur horse-dealing, rabbit-shooting, and flirting with
the farm maids.</p>
<p>“I’m afraid old Martha is dying,” said
Emma. Jim was not the sort of person to whom one had to
break news gently.</p>
<p>“Nonsense,” he said; “Martha means to live
to a hundred. She told me so, and she’ll do
it.”</p>
<p>“She may be actually dying at this moment, or it may
just be the beginning of the break-up,” persisted Emma,
with a feeling of contempt for the slowness and dulness of the
young man.</p>
<p>A grin spread over his good-natured features.</p>
<p>“It don’t look like it,” he said, nodding
towards the yard. Emma turned to catch the meaning of his
remark. Old Martha stood in the middle of a mob of poultry
scattering handfuls of grain around her. The turkey-cock,
with the bronzed sheen of his feathers and the purple-red of his
wattles, the gamecock, with the glowing metallic lustre of his
Eastern plumage, the hens, with their ochres and buffs and umbers
and their scarlet combs, and the drakes, with their bottle-green
heads, made a medley of rich colour, in the centre of which the
old woman looked like a withered stalk standing amid a riotous
growth of gaily-hued flowers. But she threw the grain
deftly amid the wilderness of beaks, and her quavering voice
carried as far as the two people who were watching her. She
was still harping on the theme of death coming to the farm.</p>
<p>“I knew ’twere a-coming. There’s been
signs an’ warnings.”</p>
<p>“Who’s dead, then, old Mother?” called out
the young man.</p>
<p>“’Tis young Mister Ladbruk,” she shrilled
back; “they’ve just a-carried his body in. Run
out of the way of a tree that was coming down an’ ran
hisself on to an iron post. Dead when they picked un
up. Aye, I knew ’twere coming.”</p>
<p>And she turned to fling a handful of barley at a belated group
of guinea-fowl that came racing toward her.</p>
<p style="text-align: center">* * * * *</p>
<p>The farm was a family property, and passed to the
rabbit-shooting cousin as the next-of-kin. Emma Ladbruk
drifted out of its history as a bee that had wandered in at an
open window might flit its way out again. On a cold grey
morning she stood waiting, with her boxes already stowed in the
farm cart, till the last of the market produce should be ready,
for the train she was to catch was of less importance than the
chickens and butter and eggs that were to be offered for
sale. From where she stood she could see an angle of the
long latticed window that was to have been cosy with curtains and
gay with bowls of flowers. Into her mind came the thought
that for months, perhaps for years, long after she had been
utterly forgotten, a white, unheeding face would be seen peering
out through those latticed panes, and a weak muttering voice
would be heard quavering up and down those flagged
passages. She made her way to a narrow barred casement that
opened into the farm larder. Old Martha was standing at a
table trussing a pair of chickens for the market stall as she had
trussed them for nearly fourscore years.</p>

		</article>
	</body>
</html>
